openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/dashboard/redash/index.md, before:

---
title: Redash
slug: /connectors/dashboard/redash
---

# Redash

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Redash connector.

Configure and schedule Redash metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

If you don't want to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion container to configure the workflows via the UI, then you can check
the following docs to connect using Airflow SDK or with the CLI.

<TileContainer>
  <Tile
    icon="air"
    title="Ingest with Airflow"
    text="Configure the ingestion using Airflow SDK"
    link="/connectors/dashboard/redash/airflow"
    size="half"
  />
  <Tile
    icon="account_tree"
    title="Ingest with the CLI"
    text="Run a one-time ingestion using the metadata CLI"
    link="/connectors/dashboard/redash/cli"
    size="half"
  />
</TileContainer>

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

## Metadata Ingestion

### 1. Visit the Services Page

The first step is ingesting the metadata from your sources. Under
Settings, you will find a Services link an external source system to
OpenMetadata. Once a service is created, it can be used to configure
metadata, usage, and profiler workflows.

To visit the Services page, select Services from the Settings menu.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/visit-services.png"
alt="Visit Services Page"
caption="Find Services under the Settings menu"
/>

### 2. Create a New Service

Click on the Add New Service button to start the Service creation.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/create-service.png"
alt="Create a new service"
caption="Add a new Service from the Services page"
/>

### 3. Select the Service Type

Select Redash as the service type and click Next.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/redash/select-service.png"
  alt="Select Service"
  caption="Select your service from the list"
/>
</div>

### 4. Name and Describe your Service

Provide a name and description for your service as illustrated below.

#### Service Name

OpenMetadata uniquely identifies services by their Service Name. Provide
a name that distinguishes your deployment from other services, including
the other {connector} services that you might be ingesting metadata
from.


<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/redash/add-new-service.png"
  alt="Add New Service"
  caption="Provide a Name and description for your Service"
/>
</div>


### 5. Configure the Service Connection

In this step, we will configure the connection settings required for
this connector. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that
you've configured the connector to read from your redash service as
desired.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/redash/service-connection.png"
  alt="Configure service connection"
  caption="Configure the service connection by filling the form"
/>
</div>


Once the credentials have been added, click on `Test Connection` and Save
the changes.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/test-connection.png"
  alt="Test Connection"
  caption="Test the connection and save the Service"
/>
</div>

#### Connection Options

- **Host and Port**: URL to the Redash instance.
- **Username**: Specify the User to connect to Redash. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **API Key**: API key of the redash instance to access.

### 6. Configure Metadata Ingestion

In this step we will configure the metadata ingestion pipeline,
Please follow the instructions below

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/configure-metadata-ingestion-dashboard.png"
alt="Configure Metadata Ingestion"
caption="Configure Metadata Ingestion Page"
/>

#### Metadata Ingestion Options

- **Name**: This field refers to the name of ingestion pipeline, you can customize the name or use the generated name.
- **Dashboard Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to dashboard filter patterns to control whether or not to include dashboard as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include dashboards by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all dashboards with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other dashboards will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude dashboards by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all dashboards with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other dashboards will be included.
- **Chart Pattern (Optional)**: Use to chart filter patterns to control whether or not to include charts as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include charts by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all charts with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other charts will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude charts by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all charts with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other charts will be included.
- **Database Service Name (Optional)**: Enter the name of Database Service which is already ingested in OpenMetadata to create lineage between dashboards and database tables.
- **Enable Debug Log (toggle)**: Set the Enable Debug Log toggle to set the default log level to debug, these logs can be viewed later in Airflow.

### 7. Schedule the Ingestion and Deploy

Scheduling can be set up at an hourly, daily, or weekly cadence. The
timezone is in UTC. Select a Start Date to schedule for ingestion. It is
optional to add an End Date.

Review your configuration settings. If they match what you intended,
click Deploy to create the service and schedule metadata ingestion.

If something doesn't look right, click the Back button to return to the
appropriate step and change the settings as needed.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/schedule.png"
alt="Schedule the Workflow"
caption="Schedule the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy"
/>

After configuring the workflow, you can click on Deploy to create the
pipeline.

### 8. View the Ingestion Pipeline

Once the workflow has been successfully deployed, you can view the
Ingestion Pipeline running from the Service Page.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/view-ingestion-pipeline.png"
alt="View Ingestion Pipeline"
caption="View the Ingestion Pipeline from the Service Page"
/>

### 9. Workflow Deployment Error

If there were any errors during the workflow deployment process, the
Ingestion Pipeline Entity will still be created, but no workflow will be
present in the Ingestion container.

You can then edit the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy it again.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/workflow-deployment-error.png"
alt="Workflow Deployment Error"
caption="Edit and Deploy the Ingestion Pipeline"
/>

From the Connection tab, you can also Edit the Service if needed.

Commit message:

Fixed Redash Source Issues (#10570)
* Imporved redash source

* Added docs

* Addressed review comments

openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/dashboard/redash/index.md, after:

---
title: Redash
slug: /connectors/dashboard/redash
---

# Redash

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Redash connector.

Configure and schedule Redash metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

If you don't want to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion container to configure the workflows via the UI, then you can check
the following docs to connect using Airflow SDK or with the CLI.

<TileContainer>
  <Tile
    icon="air"
    title="Ingest with Airflow"
    text="Configure the ingestion using Airflow SDK"
    link="/connectors/dashboard/redash/airflow"
    size="half"
  />
  <Tile
    icon="account_tree"
    title="Ingest with the CLI"
    text="Run a one-time ingestion using the metadata CLI"
    link="/connectors/dashboard/redash/cli"
    size="half"
  />
</TileContainer>

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

## Metadata Ingestion

### 1. Visit the Services Page

The first step is ingesting the metadata from your sources. Under
Settings, you will find a Services link an external source system to
OpenMetadata. Once a service is created, it can be used to configure
metadata, usage, and profiler workflows.

To visit the Services page, select Services from the Settings menu.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/visit-services.png"
alt="Visit Services Page"
caption="Find Services under the Settings menu"
/>

### 2. Create a New Service

Click on the Add New Service button to start the Service creation.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/create-service.png"
alt="Create a new service"
caption="Add a new Service from the Services page"
/>

### 3. Select the Service Type

Select Redash as the service type and click Next.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/redash/select-service.png"
  alt="Select Service"
  caption="Select your service from the list"
/>
</div>

### 4. Name and Describe your Service

Provide a name and description for your service as illustrated below.

#### Service Name

OpenMetadata uniquely identifies services by their Service Name. Provide
a name that distinguishes your deployment from other services, including
the other {connector} services that you might be ingesting metadata
from.


<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/redash/add-new-service.png"
  alt="Add New Service"
  caption="Provide a Name and description for your Service"
/>
</div>


### 5. Configure the Service Connection

In this step, we will configure the connection settings required for
this connector. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that
you've configured the connector to read from your redash service as
desired.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/redash/service-connection.png"
  alt="Configure service connection"
  caption="Configure the service connection by filling the form"
/>
</div>


Once the credentials have been added, click on `Test Connection` and Save
the changes.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/test-connection.png"
  alt="Test Connection"
  caption="Test the connection and save the Service"
/>
</div>

#### Connection Options

- **Host and Port**: URL to the Redash instance.
- **Username**: Specify the User to connect to Redash. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **API Key**: API key of the redash instance to access.
- **Redash Version**: (Default: 10.0.0) Redash version of your redash instance. Enter the numerical value from the [Redash Releases](https://github.com/getredash/redash/releases) page

### 6. Configure Metadata Ingestion

In this step we will configure the metadata ingestion pipeline,
Please follow the instructions below

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/configure-metadata-ingestion-dashboard.png"
alt="Configure Metadata Ingestion"
caption="Configure Metadata Ingestion Page"
/>

#### Metadata Ingestion Options

- **Name**: This field refers to the name of ingestion pipeline, you can customize the name or use the generated name.
- **Dashboard Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to dashboard filter patterns to control whether or not to include dashboard as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include dashboards by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all dashboards with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other dashboards will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude dashboards by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all dashboards with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other dashboards will be included.
- **Chart Pattern (Optional)**: Use to chart filter patterns to control whether or not to include charts as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include charts by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all charts with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other charts will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude charts by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all charts with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other charts will be included.
- **Database Service Name (Optional)**: Enter the name of Database Service which is already ingested in OpenMetadata to create lineage between dashboards and database tables.
- **Enable Debug Log (toggle)**: Set the Enable Debug Log toggle to set the default log level to debug, these logs can be viewed later in Airflow.

### 7. Schedule the Ingestion and Deploy

Scheduling can be set up at an hourly, daily, or weekly cadence. The
timezone is in UTC. Select a Start Date to schedule for ingestion. It is
optional to add an End Date.

Review your configuration settings. If they match what you intended,
click Deploy to create the service and schedule metadata ingestion.

If something doesn't look right, click the Back button to return to the
appropriate step and change the settings as needed.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/schedule.png"
alt="Schedule the Workflow"
caption="Schedule the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy"
/>

After configuring the workflow, you can click on Deploy to create the
pipeline.

### 8. View the Ingestion Pipeline

Once the workflow has been successfully deployed, you can view the
Ingestion Pipeline running from the Service Page.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/view-ingestion-pipeline.png"
alt="View Ingestion Pipeline"
caption="View the Ingestion Pipeline from the Service Page"
/>

### 9. Workflow Deployment Error

If there were any errors during the workflow deployment process, the
Ingestion Pipeline Entity will still be created, but no workflow will be
present in the Ingestion container.

You can then edit the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy it again.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/workflow-deployment-error.png"
alt="Workflow Deployment Error"
caption="Edit and Deploy the Ingestion Pipeline"
/>

From the Connection tab, you can also Edit the Service if needed.
