openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/personalAccessToken.md, before:

---
title: Personal Access Token | OpenMetadata Access Tokens
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/personalaccesstoken
---

# PersonalAccessToken

*This schema defines Personal Access Token Schema.*

## Properties

- **`token`**: Unique Refresh Token for user. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`tokenName`** *(string)*: Name of the token.
- **`userId`**: User Id of the User this refresh token is given to. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`tokenType`**: Token Type. Refer to *[./emailVerificationToken.json#/definitions/tokenType](#emailVerificationToken.json#/definitions/tokenType)*. Default: `"PERSONAL_ACCESS"`.
- **`expiryDate`**: Expiry Date-Time of the token. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`jwtToken`** *(string)*: JWT Auth Token.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/personalAccessToken.md, after:

---
title: Personal Access Token | OpenMetadata Access Tokens
description: Store and manage personal access tokens for secure user API interactions.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/auth/personalaccesstoken
---

# PersonalAccessToken

*This schema defines Personal Access Token Schema.*

## Properties

- **`token`**: Unique Refresh Token for user. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`tokenName`** *(string)*: Name of the token.
- **`userId`**: User Id of the User this refresh token is given to. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`tokenType`**: Token Type. Refer to *[./emailVerificationToken.json#/definitions/tokenType](#emailVerificationToken.json#/definitions/tokenType)*. Default: `"PERSONAL_ACCESS"`.
- **`expiryDate`**: Expiry Date-Time of the token. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`jwtToken`** *(string)*: JWT Auth Token.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
