openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/deployment/security/google/bare-metal.md, before:

---
title: Google SSO for Bare Metal
slug: /deployment/security/google/bare-metal
---

# Google SSO for Bare Metal

## Update conf/openmetadata.yaml

Once the `Client Id` and `Client Secret` are generated add the `Client Id` in `openmetadata.yaml` file in `client_id` field.

```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: "google"
  publicKeyUrls:
    - "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs"
  authority: "https://accounts.google.com"
  clientId: "{client id}"
  callbackUrl: "http://localhost:8585/callback"
```

Then, 
- Update `authorizerConfiguration` to add login names of the admin users in `adminPrincipals` section as shown below.
- Update the `principalDomain` to your company domain name.

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  className: "org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer"
  # JWT Filter
  containerRequestFilter: "org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter"
  adminPrincipals:
    - "user1"
    - "user2"
  principalDomain: "open-metadata.org"
```

{% partial file="/v1.2/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

Commit message:

Minor: Fix docs to include jwt url from OM in all the principalURLs config

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/deployment/security/google/bare-metal.md, after:

---
title: Google SSO for Bare Metal
slug: /deployment/security/google/bare-metal
---

# Google SSO for Bare Metal

## Update conf/openmetadata.yaml

Once the `Client Id` and `Client Secret` are generated add the `Client Id` in `openmetadata.yaml` file in `client_id` field.

```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: "google"
  publicKeyUrls:
    - "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs"
    - "http://{your openmetadata domain}/api/v1/config/jwks" # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
  authority: "https://accounts.google.com"
  clientId: "{client id}"
  callbackUrl: "http://localhost:8585/callback"
```

Then, 
- Update `authorizerConfiguration` to add login names of the admin users in `adminPrincipals` section as shown below.
- Update the `principalDomain` to your company domain name.

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  className: "org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer"
  # JWT Filter
  containerRequestFilter: "org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter"
  adminPrincipals:
    - "user1"
    - "user2"
  principalDomain: "open-metadata.org"
```

{% partial file="/v1.2/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}
