openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/dashboard/superset/airflow.md, before:

---
title: Run Superset Connector using Airflow SDK
slug: /connectors/dashboard/superset/airflow
---

# Run Superset using the Airflow SDK

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Superset connector.

Configure and schedule Superset metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

The ingestion also works with Superset 2.0.0 🎉


<Note>

**API Connection**: To extract metadata from Superset via API, user must have at least `can read on Chart` & `can read on Dashboard` permissions.

<br/>

**Database Connection**: To extract metadata from Superset via MySQL or Postgres database, database user must have at least `SELECT` priviledge on `dashboards` & `slices` tables within superset schema.

</Note>

### Python Requirements

To run the Superset ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[superset]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/dashboard/supersetConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Superset.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Superset:

```yaml
source:
  type: superset
  serviceName: local_superset
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Superset
      hostPort: http://localhost:8080
      connection:
        # For Superset API Connection
        username: admin
        password: admin
        provider: db # or provider: ldap

        # For MySQL Connection
        # type: Mysql
        # username: <username>
        # password: <password>
        # hostPort: <hostPort>
        # databaseSchema: superset

        # For Postgres Connection
        # type: Postgres
        # username: username
        # password: password
        # hostPort: localhost:5432
        # database: superset

  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: DashboardMetadata
      # dbServiceNames:
      #   - service1
      #   - service2
      # dashboardFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - dashboard1
      #     - dashboard2
      #   excludes:
      #     - dashboard3
      #     - dashboard4
      # chartFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - chart1
      #     - chart2
      #   excludes:
      #     - chart3
      #     - chart4
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

- **hostPort**: URL to the Superset instance.
- **connection**: Add the connection details to fetch metadata from Superset either through APIs or Database.

<Collapse title="Superset API Connection">

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Superset. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password for Superset.
- **provider**: Authentication provider for the Superset service. For basic user/password authentication, the default value `db` can be used. This parameter is used internally to connect to Superset's REST API.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="MySQL Connection">

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to MySQL. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to MySQL.
- **hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your MySQL deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to MySQL during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to MySQL during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs. 
  - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
  - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="Postgres Connection">

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Postgres. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to Postgres.
- **hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your Postgres deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to Postgres during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to Postgres during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs. 
  - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
  - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

</Collapse>

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/dashboardServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `dbServiceNames`: Database Service Name for the creation of lineage, if the source supports it.
- `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern`: Note that the `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern` both support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,

```yaml
dashboardFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>

## 2. Prepare the Ingestion DAG

Create a Python file in your Airflow DAGs directory with the following contents:

```python
import pathlib
import yaml
from datetime import timedelta
from airflow import DAG

try:
    from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
except ModuleNotFoundError:
    from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator

from metadata.config.common import load_config_file
from metadata.ingestion.api.workflow import Workflow
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

default_args = {
    "owner": "user_name",
    "email": ["username@org.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "retries": 3,
    "retry_delay": timedelta(minutes=5),
    "execution_timeout": timedelta(minutes=60)
}

config = """
<your YAML configuration>
"""

def metadata_ingestion_workflow():
    workflow_config = yaml.safe_load(config)
    workflow = Workflow.create(workflow_config)
    workflow.execute()
    workflow.raise_from_status()
    workflow.print_status()
    workflow.stop()

with DAG(
    "sample_data",
    default_args=default_args,
    description="An example DAG which runs a OpenMetadata ingestion workflow",
    start_date=days_ago(1),
    is_paused_upon_creation=False,
    schedule_interval='*/5 * * * *',
    catchup=False,
) as dag:
    ingest_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id="ingest_using_recipe",
        python_callable=metadata_ingestion_workflow,
    )
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same. By updating the YAML configuration, you will
be able to extract metadata from different sources.

Commit message:

Added flag for overriding owners (#10425)
* added flag for overriding owners

* docs update

* adding owners in patch call

* adding owners in patch call

* fix: python test case

* changes as per comment

* changes as per comment

* ui changes

openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/dashboard/superset/airflow.md, after:

---
title: Run Superset Connector using Airflow SDK
slug: /connectors/dashboard/superset/airflow
---

# Run Superset using the Airflow SDK

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Superset connector.

Configure and schedule Superset metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

The ingestion also works with Superset 2.0.0 🎉


<Note>

**API Connection**: To extract metadata from Superset via API, user must have at least `can read on Chart` & `can read on Dashboard` permissions.

<br/>

**Database Connection**: To extract metadata from Superset via MySQL or Postgres database, database user must have at least `SELECT` priviledge on `dashboards` & `slices` tables within superset schema.

</Note>

### Python Requirements

To run the Superset ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[superset]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/dashboard/supersetConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Superset.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Superset:

```yaml
source:
  type: superset
  serviceName: local_superset
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Superset
      hostPort: http://localhost:8080
      connection:
        # For Superset API Connection
        username: admin
        password: admin
        provider: db # or provider: ldap

        # For MySQL Connection
        # type: Mysql
        # username: <username>
        # password: <password>
        # hostPort: <hostPort>
        # databaseSchema: superset

        # For Postgres Connection
        # type: Postgres
        # username: username
        # password: password
        # hostPort: localhost:5432
        # database: superset

  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: DashboardMetadata
      overrideOwner: True
      # dbServiceNames:
      #   - service1
      #   - service2
      # dashboardFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - dashboard1
      #     - dashboard2
      #   excludes:
      #     - dashboard3
      #     - dashboard4
      # chartFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - chart1
      #     - chart2
      #   excludes:
      #     - chart3
      #     - chart4
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

- **hostPort**: URL to the Superset instance.
- **connection**: Add the connection details to fetch metadata from Superset either through APIs or Database.

<Collapse title="Superset API Connection">

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Superset. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password for Superset.
- **provider**: Authentication provider for the Superset service. For basic user/password authentication, the default value `db` can be used. This parameter is used internally to connect to Superset's REST API.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="MySQL Connection">

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to MySQL. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to MySQL.
- **hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your MySQL deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to MySQL during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to MySQL during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs. 
  - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
  - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="Postgres Connection">

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Postgres. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to Postgres.
- **hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your Postgres deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to Postgres during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to Postgres during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs. 
  - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
  - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

</Collapse>

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/dashboardServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `dbServiceNames`: Database Service Name for the creation of lineage, if the source supports it.
- `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern`: Note that the `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern` both support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,
- `overrideOwner`: Flag to override current owner by new owner from source, if found during metadata ingestion

```yaml
dashboardFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>

## 2. Prepare the Ingestion DAG

Create a Python file in your Airflow DAGs directory with the following contents:

```python
import pathlib
import yaml
from datetime import timedelta
from airflow import DAG

try:
    from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
except ModuleNotFoundError:
    from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator

from metadata.config.common import load_config_file
from metadata.ingestion.api.workflow import Workflow
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

default_args = {
    "owner": "user_name",
    "email": ["username@org.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "retries": 3,
    "retry_delay": timedelta(minutes=5),
    "execution_timeout": timedelta(minutes=60)
}

config = """
<your YAML configuration>
"""

def metadata_ingestion_workflow():
    workflow_config = yaml.safe_load(config)
    workflow = Workflow.create(workflow_config)
    workflow.execute()
    workflow.raise_from_status()
    workflow.print_status()
    workflow.stop()

with DAG(
    "sample_data",
    default_args=default_args,
    description="An example DAG which runs a OpenMetadata ingestion workflow",
    start_date=days_ago(1),
    is_paused_upon_creation=False,
    schedule_interval='*/5 * * * *',
    catchup=False,
) as dag:
    ingest_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id="ingest_using_recipe",
        python_callable=metadata_ingestion_workflow,
    )
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same. By updating the YAML configuration, you will
be able to extract metadata from different sources.
