openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/index.md, before:

---
title: Data API Schemas | OpenMetadata Data API Overview
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data
---

# Data

This folder contains the following items:

- [**CreateAPIEndpoint**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createapiendpoint)
- [**CreateGlossary**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createglossary)
- [**CreateAPICollection**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createapicollection)
- [**CreateChart**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createchart)
- [**CreateContainer**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createcontainer)
- [**CreateDashboard**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdashboard)
- [**CreateMlModel**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createmlmodel)
- [**CreateDatabaseSchema**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdatabaseschema)
- [**CreateGlossaryTerm**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createglossaryterm)
- [**CreateQuery**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createquery)
- [**CreateTopic**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createtopic)
- [**CreateStoredProcedure**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createstoredprocedure)
- [**LoadGlossary**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/loadglossary)
- [**CreateTable**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createtable)
- [**CreateCustomProperty**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createcustomproperty)
- [**CreateTableProfile**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createtableprofile)
- [**CreateMetric**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createmetric)
- [**CreateDashboardDataModel**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdashboarddatamodel)
- [**CreatePipeline**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createpipeline)
- [**CreateSearchIndex**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createsearchindex)
- [**RestoreEntity**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/restoreentity)
- [**CreateDatabase**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdatabase)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/index.md, after:

---
title: Data API Schemas | OpenMetadata Data API Overview
description: Connect Data to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data
---

# Data

This folder contains the following items:

- [**CreateAPIEndpoint**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createapiendpoint)
- [**CreateGlossary**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createglossary)
- [**CreateAPICollection**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createapicollection)
- [**CreateChart**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createchart)
- [**CreateContainer**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createcontainer)
- [**CreateDashboard**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdashboard)
- [**CreateMlModel**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createmlmodel)
- [**CreateDatabaseSchema**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdatabaseschema)
- [**CreateGlossaryTerm**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createglossaryterm)
- [**CreateQuery**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createquery)
- [**CreateTopic**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createtopic)
- [**CreateStoredProcedure**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createstoredprocedure)
- [**LoadGlossary**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/loadglossary)
- [**CreateTable**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createtable)
- [**CreateCustomProperty**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createcustomproperty)
- [**CreateTableProfile**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createtableprofile)
- [**CreateMetric**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createmetric)
- [**CreateDashboardDataModel**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdashboarddatamodel)
- [**CreatePipeline**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createpipeline)
- [**CreateSearchIndex**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createsearchindex)
- [**RestoreEntity**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/restoreentity)
- [**CreateDatabase**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/data/createdatabase)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
