openmetadata-docs/content/how-to-guides/custom-logo/how-to-add-custom-logo.md, before:

---
title: How to change the Login Page and Nav Bar Logo
slug: /how-to-guides/custom-logo/how-to-add-custom-logo
---

To change the Logo for the application, we need to update logo at two locations.

1. Login Page

<Image src="/images/how-to-guides/custom-logo/login-Page-Logo.png" alt="loginPage-image"/>

2. Navigation Bar

<Image src="/images/how-to-guides/custom-logo/nav-Bar-Logo.png" alt="navBar-image"/>

# How to add a custom logo for the application

### Step 1: Get the image size as per the following formats.

- Login Page (1 px x 2px)
- Navigation Bar (1 px x 2px)

### Step 2: Configure 'openmetadata.yaml' or the corresponding environment variables

```yaml
applicationConfig:
  logoConfig:
    logoLocationType: ${OM_LOGO_LOCATION_TYPE:-openmetadata} #either "openmetadata' or { "url" or "filePath" , based on this specify either '*AbsoluteFilePath' or '*LogoUrlPath' }
    loginPageLogoAbsoluteFilePath: ${OM_LOGO_LOGIN_LOCATION_FILE_PATH:-""} #login page logo , work in "filePath" mode
    loginPageLogoUrlPath: ${OM_LOGO_LOGIN_LOCATION_URL_PATH:-""} #login page logo , work in "url" mode
    navBarLogoAbsoluteFilePath: ${OM_LOGO_NAVBAR_LOCATION_FILE_PATH:-""} #nav bar logo , work in "filePath" mode
    navBarLogoUrlPath: ${OM_LOGO_NAVBAR_LOCATION_URL_PATH:-""} #nav bar logo , work in "url" mode
```
1. `logoLocationType` set to 'openmetadata'

   - In this case it will take the default OM logo, we don't need to configure anything else.

2. `logoLocationType` set to 'filePath'

   - In this case it will take the custom logo from the specified absolute paths, need to configure following as well.
     - `loginPageLogoAbsoluteFilePath` -> This is the path for Login Page Logo Image.
     - `navBarLogoAbsoluteFilePath` -> This is the path for Navigation Bar Logo Image.

3. `logoLocationType` set to 'url'

   - In this case it will take the custom logo from the specified url, need to configure following as well.
     - `loginPageLogoUrlPath` -> This is the url for Login Page Logo Image.
     - `navBarLogoUrlPath` -> This is the url for Navigation Bar Logo Image.

Commit message:

✨feat(ui)#10274: UI - allow to configure OM logo (#10316)
* ✨feat(ui)#10274: UI - allow to configure OM logo

* chore: use logo config to render the brand and login page logo

* fix : cy tests

* doc: update the doc

* chore: remove check for filePath logo location type

* test: add unit test

* - removed FilePath
- Added configs to docker

* address comment

* remove config from test yaml

* update logo aspect ratio

* remove type

* chore: update ui logic as per backend config

* update doc

* address comments

* Revert "address comments"

This reverts commit c4f9da88918343cab08cd5e603cba29bd05b2ec9.

* address comments

---------

Co-authored-by: mohitdeuex <mohit.y@deuexsolutions.com>

openmetadata-docs/content/how-to-guides/custom-logo/how-to-add-custom-logo.md, after:

---
title: How to change the Login Page and Nav Bar Logo
slug: /how-to-guides/custom-logo/how-to-add-custom-logo
---

# How to add a custom logo for the application

To change the Logo for the application, we need to update logo at two locations.

1. Login Page

<Image src="/images/how-to-guides/custom-logo/login-Page-Logo.png" alt="loginPage-image"/>

2. Navigation Bar

<Image src="/images/how-to-guides/custom-logo/nav-Bar-Logo.png" alt="navBar-image"/>

### Step 1: Get the image size as per the following formats.

- Monogram aspect ratio should be 1:1 and Recommended size should be 30 x 30 px
- Logo aspect ratio should be 5:2 and Recommended size should be 150 x 60 px

### Step 2: Configure 'openmetadata.yaml' or the corresponding environment variables

```yaml
applicationConfig:
  logoConfig:
    customLogoUrlPath: ${OM_CUSTOM_LOGO_URL_PATH:-""} #login page logo
    customMonogramUrlPath: ${OM_CUSTOM_MONOGRAM_URL_PATH:-""} #nav bar logo
```

1. `customLogoUrlPath`

   - URL path for the login page logo.

2. `customMonogramUrlPath`

   - URL path for the navbar logo.
