openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/feed/createThread.md, before:

---
title: createThread
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/feed/createthread
---

# CreateThreadRequest

*Create thread request*

## Properties

- **`message`** *(string)*: Message.
- **`from`** *(string)*: Name of the User (regular user or bot) posting the message.
- **`addressedTo`**: User or team this thread is addressed to in format <#E::{entities}::{entityName}::{field}::{fieldValue}. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink)*.
- **`about`**: Data asset about which this thread is created for with format <#E::{entities}::{entityType}::{field}::{fieldValue}. Refer to *[../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink](#/../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink)*.
- **`type`**: Refer to *[../../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/threadType](#/../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/threadType)*.
- **`taskDetails`**: Refer to *[#/definitions/createTaskDetails](#definitions/createTaskDetails)*.
- **`announcementDetails`**: Refer to *[../../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/announcementDetails](#/../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/announcementDetails)*.
## Definitions

- <a id="definitions/createTaskDetails"></a>**`createTaskDetails`** *(object)*: Details about the task. This is only applicable if thread is of type task. Cannot contain additional properties.
  - **`type`**: Refer to *[../../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/taskType](#/../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/taskType)*.
  - **`assignees`**: List of users or teams the task is assigned to. Refer to *[../../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/../type/entityReferenceList.json)*.
  - **`oldValue`** *(string)*: The value of old object for which the task is created.
  - **`suggestion`** *(string)*: The suggestion object for the task provided by the creator.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 11:39:15.608628.

Commit message:

updated the schema docs with better parsing

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/feed/createThread.md, after:

---
title: createThread
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/feed/createthread
---

# CreateThreadRequest

*Create thread request*

## Properties

- **`message`** *(string)*: Message.
- **`from`** *(string)*: Name of the User (regular user or bot) posting the message.
- **`addressedTo`**: User or team this thread is addressed to in format <#E::{entities}::{entityName}::{field}::{fieldValue}. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink*.
- **`about`**: Data asset about which this thread is created for with format <#E::{entities}::{entityType}::{field}::{fieldValue}. Refer to *../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink*.
- **`type`**: Refer to *../../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/threadType*.
- **`taskDetails`**: Refer to *#/definitions/createTaskDetails*.
- **`announcementDetails`**: Refer to *../../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/announcementDetails*.
## Definitions

- **`createTaskDetails`** *(object)*: Details about the task. This is only applicable if thread is of type task. Cannot contain additional properties.
  - **`type`**: Refer to *../../entity/feed/thread.json#/definitions/taskType*.
  - **`assignees`**: List of users or teams the task is assigned to. Refer to *../../type/entityReferenceList.json*.
  - **`oldValue`** *(string)*: The value of old object for which the task is created.
  - **`suggestion`** *(string)*: The suggestion object for the task provided by the creator.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 13:55:46.343512.
