openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/type/entityRelationship.md, before:

---
title: entityRelationship
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/type/entityrelationship
---

# EntityRelationship

*This schema defines the EntityRelationship type used for establishing relationship between two entities. EntityRelationship is used for capturing relationships from one entity to another. For example, a database contains tables.*

## Properties

- **`fromId`**: Unique identifier that identifies the entity from which the relationship originates. Refer to *[basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#sic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`fromFQN`** *(string)*: Fully qualified name of the entity from which the relationship originates.
- **`fromEntity`** *(string)*: Type of the entity from which the relationship originates. Examples: `database`, `table`, `metrics` ...
- **`toId`**: Unique identifier that identifies the entity towards which the relationship refers to. Refer to *[basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#sic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`toFQN`** *(string)*: Fully qualified name of the entity towards which the relationship refers to.
- **`toEntity`** *(string)*: Type of the entity towards which the relationship refers to. Examples: `database`, `table`, `metrics` ...
- **`relation`** *(integer)*: Describes relationship between the two entities as an integer. Minimum: `0`.
- **`relationshipType`**: Describes relationship between the two entities. Eg: Database --- Contains --> Table. Refer to *[#/definitions/relationshipType](#definitions/relationshipType)*.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: `true` indicates the relationship has been soft deleted. Default: `false`.
## Definitions

- <a id="definitions/relationshipType"></a>**`relationshipType`** *(string)*: This enum captures all the relationships between Catalog entities. Note that the relationship from is a Strong entity and to is Weak entity when possible. Must be one of: `["contains", "createdBy", "repliedTo", "isAbout", "addressedTo", "mentionedIn", "testedBy", "uses", "owns", "parentOf", "has", "follows", "joinedWith", "upstream", "appliedTo", "relatedTo", "reviews", "reactedTo", "voted", "expert", "editedBy", "defaultsTo"]`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 11:39:15.608628.

Commit message:

updated the schema docs with better parsing

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/type/entityRelationship.md, after:

---
title: entityRelationship
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/type/entityrelationship
---

# EntityRelationship

*This schema defines the EntityRelationship type used for establishing relationship between two entities. EntityRelationship is used for capturing relationships from one entity to another. For example, a database contains tables.*

## Properties

- **`fromId`**: Unique identifier that identifies the entity from which the relationship originates. Refer to *basic.json#/definitions/uuid*.
- **`fromFQN`** *(string)*: Fully qualified name of the entity from which the relationship originates.
- **`fromEntity`** *(string)*: Type of the entity from which the relationship originates. Examples: `database`, `table`, `metrics` ...
- **`toId`**: Unique identifier that identifies the entity towards which the relationship refers to. Refer to *basic.json#/definitions/uuid*.
- **`toFQN`** *(string)*: Fully qualified name of the entity towards which the relationship refers to.
- **`toEntity`** *(string)*: Type of the entity towards which the relationship refers to. Examples: `database`, `table`, `metrics` ...
- **`relation`** *(integer)*: Describes relationship between the two entities as an integer. Minimum: `0`.
- **`relationshipType`**: Describes relationship between the two entities. Eg: Database --- Contains --> Table. Refer to *#/definitions/relationshipType*.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: `true` indicates the relationship has been soft deleted. Default: `False`.
## Definitions

- **`relationshipType`** *(string)*: This enum captures all the relationships between Catalog entities. Note that the relationship from is a Strong entity and to is Weak entity when possible. Must be one of: `['contains', 'createdBy', 'repliedTo', 'isAbout', 'addressedTo', 'mentionedIn', 'testedBy', 'uses', 'owns', 'parentOf', 'has', 'follows', 'joinedWith', 'upstream', 'appliedTo', 'relatedTo', 'reviews', 'reactedTo', 'voted', 'expert', 'editedBy', 'defaultsTo']`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2023-10-27 13:55:46.343512.
