docs/integrations/airflow/airflow-lineage.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Learn how to capture lineage information directly from Airflow DAGs using the
  OpenMetadata Lineage Backend.
---

# Airflow Lineage

## Introduction

Obtaining metadata should be as simple as possible. Not only that, we want developers to be able to keep using their tools without any major changes.

We can directly use [Airflow code](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/lineage.html#lineage-backend) to help us track data lineage. What we want to achieve through this backend is the ability to link OpenMetadata Table Entities and the pipelines that have those instances as inputs or outputs.

Being able to control and monitor these relationships can play a major role in helping discover and communicate issues to your company data practitioners and stakeholders.

This document will guide you through the installation, configuration and internals of the process to help you unlock as much value as possible from within your Airflow pipelines.

## Quickstart

### Installation

The Lineage Backend can be directly installed to the Airflow instances as part of the usual OpenMetadata Python distribution:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Install Using PyPI" %}
```bash
pip3 install 'openmetadata-ingestion[airflow-container]'
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Adding Lineage Config

After the installation, we need to update the Airflow configuration. This can be done following this example on `airflow.cfg`:

{% code title="airflow.cfg" %}
```
[lineage]
backend = airflow_provider_openmetadata.lineage.openmetadata.OpenMetadataLineageBackend
airflow_service_name = local_airflow
openmetadata_api_endpoint = http://localhost:8585/api
auth_provider_type = no-auth
```
{% endcode %}

Or we can directly provide environment variables:

```
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__BACKEND="airflow_provider_openmetadata.lineage.openmetadata.OpenMetadataLineageBackend"
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__AIRFLOW_SERVICE_NAME="local_airflow"
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__OPENMETADATA_API_ENDPOINT="http://localhost:8585/api"
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__AUTH_PROVIDER_TYPE="no-auth"
```

We can choose the option that best adapts to our current architecture.

> Find more information on Airflow configurations [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/set-config.html).

In the following sections, we'll show how to adapt our pipelines to help us build the lineage information.

## Lineage Backend

> You can find the source code [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/ingestion/src/airflow\_provider\_openmetadata).

### Pipeline Service

The backend will look for a Pipeline Service Entity with the name specified in the configuration under `airflow_service_name`. If it cannot find the instance, it will create one based on the following information:

* `airflow_service_name` as name. If not informed, the default value will be `airflow`.
* It will use the `webserver` base URL as the URL of the service.

### Pipeline Entity

Each DAG processed by the backend will be created or updated as a Pipeline Entity linked to the above Pipeline Service.

We are going to extract the task information and add it to the Pipeline task property list. Then, a DAG created with some tasks as the following random example:

```python
t1 >> [t2, t3]
```

Will capture this information as well, therefore showing how the DAG contains three tasks `t1`, `t2` and `t3`; and `t1` having `t2` and `t3` as downstream tasks.

![Pipeline and Tasks example](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (13) (1) (1) (1) (1) (1).png>)

### Adding Lineage

Airflow [Operators](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/\_api/airflow/models/baseoperator/index.html) contain the attributes `inlets` and `outlets`. When creating our tasks, we can pass any of these two parameters as follows:

```python
BashOperator(
    task_id='print_date',
    bash_command='date',
    outlets={
        "tables": ["bigquery_gcp.shopify.dim_address"]
    }
)
```

Note how in this example we are defining a Python `dict` with the key `tables` and value a `list`. This list should contain the FQDN of tables ingested through any of our connectors or APIs.

When each task is processed, we will use the OpenMetadata client to add the lineage information (upstream for inlets and downstream for outlets) between the Pipeline and Table Entities.

It is important to get the naming right, as we will fetch the Table Entity by its FQDN. If no information is specified in terms of lineage, we will just ingest the Pipeline Entity without adding further information.

## Capturing Status

Now that we already have the Lineage Backend installed on the Airflow instance, there is some more information that we can extract.

When the code runs, we have access to the DAG and its Tasks, so we can take the chance to capture as well their **Status** for each execution. We will mark the DAG Status as `Successful` if its tasks Succeed. Otherwise, we'll flag it as `Failed`.

To retrieve the Status information, you can use the REST API:

```bash
curl -XGET http://<host>/api/v1/pipelines/name/<pipeline FQDN>\?fields\=tasks,pipelineStatus
```

In the section below, you'll find more information on how to configure this behavior.

## Lineage Callback

One of the downsides of the Lineage Backend is that it does not get executed when a task fails. In order to still get the metadata information from the workflow, we can use the OpenMetadata lineage callbacks.

Import them with

```python
from airflow_provider_openmetadata.lineage.callback import success_callback, failure_callback
```

and pass them as an argument for `on_failure_callback` and `on_success_callback`.

This can be set both at DAG and Task level, giving us flexibility on how (and if) we want to handle lineage on failure.

### On Failure Callback

This function handles the end-to-end logic:

* Ingest the Pipeline Entity and its Tasks
* Parse the lineage information and push it to the API
* Add the `Failed` Status to the Task

So even if you are not interested in capturing Status, it is a good idea to configure at least this callback to not miss any metadata updates even for failed executions.

### On Success Callback

Airflow executes the Lineage Backend before the Task Status is updated internally. This means that if we try to extract the Status information during the Backend execution, we'll always see it as `running`.

On the other hand, when a Callback gets executed, we have the final picture of the task execution, as it is the last step after registering the Status and updating the internal task information.

With the Success Callback, we will query the OpenMetadata API for the Pipeline Entity created in previous steps, and we will just update the Status information for the Task being processed and the DAG.

Commit message:

Add to docs how to setup lineage callbacks by default on airflow

docs/integrations/airflow/airflow-lineage.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Learn how to capture lineage information directly from Airflow DAGs using the
  OpenMetadata Lineage Backend.
---

# Airflow Lineage

## Introduction

Obtaining metadata should be as simple as possible. Not only that, we want developers to be able to keep using their tools without any major changes.

We can directly use [Airflow code](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/lineage.html#lineage-backend) to help us track data lineage. What we want to achieve through this backend is the ability to link OpenMetadata Table Entities and the pipelines that have those instances as inputs or outputs.

Being able to control and monitor these relationships can play a major role in helping discover and communicate issues to your company data practitioners and stakeholders.

This document will guide you through the installation, configuration and internals of the process to help you unlock as much value as possible from within your Airflow pipelines.

## Quickstart

### Installation

The Lineage Backend can be directly installed to the Airflow instances as part of the usual OpenMetadata Python distribution:

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Install Using PyPI" %}
```bash
pip3 install 'openmetadata-ingestion[airflow-container]'
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Adding Lineage Config

After the installation, we need to update the Airflow configuration. This can be done following this example on `airflow.cfg`:

{% code title="airflow.cfg" %}
```
[lineage]
backend = airflow_provider_openmetadata.lineage.openmetadata.OpenMetadataLineageBackend
airflow_service_name = local_airflow
openmetadata_api_endpoint = http://localhost:8585/api
auth_provider_type = no-auth
```
{% endcode %}

Or we can directly provide environment variables:

```
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__BACKEND="airflow_provider_openmetadata.lineage.openmetadata.OpenMetadataLineageBackend"
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__AIRFLOW_SERVICE_NAME="local_airflow"
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__OPENMETADATA_API_ENDPOINT="http://localhost:8585/api"
AIRFLOW__LINEAGE__AUTH_PROVIDER_TYPE="no-auth"
```

We can choose the option that best adapts to our current architecture.

> Find more information on Airflow configurations [here](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/set-config.html).

In the following sections, we'll show how to adapt our pipelines to help us build the lineage information.

## Lineage Backend

> You can find the source code [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/ingestion/src/airflow\_provider\_openmetadata).

### Pipeline Service

The backend will look for a Pipeline Service Entity with the name specified in the configuration under `airflow_service_name`. If it cannot find the instance, it will create one based on the following information:

* `airflow_service_name` as name. If not informed, the default value will be `airflow`.
* It will use the `webserver` base URL as the URL of the service.

### Pipeline Entity

Each DAG processed by the backend will be created or updated as a Pipeline Entity linked to the above Pipeline Service.

We are going to extract the task information and add it to the Pipeline task property list. Then, a DAG created with some tasks as the following random example:

```python
t1 >> [t2, t3]
```

Will capture this information as well, therefore showing how the DAG contains three tasks `t1`, `t2` and `t3`; and `t1` having `t2` and `t3` as downstream tasks.

![Pipeline and Tasks example](<../../.gitbook/assets/image (13) (1) (1) (1) (1) (1).png>)

### Adding Lineage

Airflow [Operators](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/\_api/airflow/models/baseoperator/index.html) contain the attributes `inlets` and `outlets`. When creating our tasks, we can pass any of these two parameters as follows:

```python
BashOperator(
    task_id='print_date',
    bash_command='date',
    outlets={
        "tables": ["bigquery_gcp.shopify.dim_address"]
    }
)
```

Note how in this example we are defining a Python `dict` with the key `tables` and value a `list`. This list should contain the FQDN of tables ingested through any of our connectors or APIs.

When each task is processed, we will use the OpenMetadata client to add the lineage information (upstream for inlets and downstream for outlets) between the Pipeline and Table Entities.

It is important to get the naming right, as we will fetch the Table Entity by its FQDN. If no information is specified in terms of lineage, we will just ingest the Pipeline Entity without adding further information.

## Capturing Status

Now that we already have the Lineage Backend installed on the Airflow instance, there is some more information that we can extract.

When the code runs, we have access to the DAG and its Tasks, so we can take the chance to capture as well their **Status** for each execution. We will mark the DAG Status as `Successful` if its tasks Succeed. Otherwise, we'll flag it as `Failed`.

To retrieve the Status information, you can use the REST API:

```bash
curl -XGET http://<host>/api/v1/pipelines/name/<pipeline FQDN>\?fields\=tasks,pipelineStatus
```

In the section below, you'll find more information on how to configure this behavior.

## Lineage Callback

One of the downsides of the Lineage Backend is that it does not get executed when a task fails. In order to still get the metadata information from the workflow, we can use the OpenMetadata lineage callbacks.

Import them with

```python
from airflow_provider_openmetadata.lineage.callback import success_callback, failure_callback
```

and pass them as an argument for `on_failure_callback` and `on_success_callback`.

This can be set both at DAG and Task level, giving us flexibility on how (and if) we want to handle lineage on failure.

If you want to track all DAGs, Tasks or specifics operators from airflow, considere to use the [Airflow Cluster Policies](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/cluster-policies.html) to wrap the OpenMetadata lineage callbacks by default.

### On Failure Callback

This function handles the end-to-end logic:

* Ingest the Pipeline Entity and its Tasks
* Parse the lineage information and push it to the API
* Add the `Failed` Status to the Task

So even if you are not interested in capturing Status, it is a good idea to configure at least this callback to not miss any metadata updates even for failed executions.

### On Success Callback

Airflow executes the Lineage Backend before the Task Status is updated internally. This means that if we try to extract the Status information during the Backend execution, we'll always see it as `running`.

On the other hand, when a Callback gets executed, we have the final picture of the task execution, as it is the last step after registering the Status and updating the internal task information.

With the Success Callback, we will query the OpenMetadata API for the Pipeline Entity created in previous steps, and we will just update the Status information for the Task being processed and the DAG.
