openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/events/testDestinationStatus.md, before:

---
title: testDestinationStatus | OpenMetadata Test Destination Status
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/events/testdestinationstatus
---

# TestDestinationStatus

*Detailed status of the destination during a test operation, including HTTP response information.*

## Properties

- **`status`** *(string)*: Overall test status, indicating if the test operation succeeded or failed. Must be one of: `["Success", "Failed"]`.
- **`reason`** *(string)*: Detailed reason for failure if the test did not succeed.
- **`statusCode`** *(integer)*: HTTP status code of the response (e.g., 200 for OK, 404 for Not Found).
- **`statusInfo`** *(string)*: HTTP status reason phrase associated with the status code (e.g., 'Not Found').
- **`headers`**: HTTP headers returned in the response as a map of header names to values.
- **`entity`** *(string)*: Body of the HTTP response, if any, returned by the server.
- **`mediaType`** *(string)*: Media type of the response entity, if specified (e.g., application/json).
- **`location`** *(string, format: uri)*: URL location if the response indicates a redirect or newly created resource.
- **`timestamp`**: Timestamp when the response was received, in UNIX epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/events/testDestinationStatus.md, after:

---
title: testDestinationStatus | OpenMetadata Test Destination Status
description: Connect Testdestinationstatus to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/events/testdestinationstatus
---

# TestDestinationStatus

*Detailed status of the destination during a test operation, including HTTP response information.*

## Properties

- **`status`** *(string)*: Overall test status, indicating if the test operation succeeded or failed. Must be one of: `["Success", "Failed"]`.
- **`reason`** *(string)*: Detailed reason for failure if the test did not succeed.
- **`statusCode`** *(integer)*: HTTP status code of the response (e.g., 200 for OK, 404 for Not Found).
- **`statusInfo`** *(string)*: HTTP status reason phrase associated with the status code (e.g., 'Not Found').
- **`headers`**: HTTP headers returned in the response as a map of header names to values.
- **`entity`** *(string)*: Body of the HTTP response, if any, returned by the server.
- **`mediaType`** *(string)*: Media type of the response entity, if specified (e.g., application/json).
- **`location`** *(string, format: uri)*: URL location if the response indicates a redirect or newly created resource.
- **`timestamp`**: Timestamp when the response was received, in UNIX epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
