openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/dashboard/quicksight/cli.md, before:

---
title: Run Quicksight Connector using the CLI
slug: /connectors/dashboard/quicksight/cli
---

# Run Quicksight using the metadata CLI

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Quicksight connector.

Configure and schedule Quicksight metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

### Python Requirements

To run the Quicksight ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[quicksight]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/dashboard/quickSightConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Quicksight.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is Quicksightled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Quicksight:

```yaml
source:
  type: Quicksight
  serviceName: local_Quicksight
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: QuickSight
      awsConfig:
        awsAccessKeyId: key
        awsSecretAccessKey: secret
        awsRegion: ap-south-1
        awsSessionToken: token
      awsAccountId: account-id
      identityType: identityType
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: DashboardMetadata
      # dbServiceNames:
      #   - service1
      #   - service2
      # dashboardFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - dashboard1
      #     - dashboard2
      #   excludes:
      #     - dashboard3
      #     - dashboard4
      # chartFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - chart1
      #     - chart2
      #   excludes:
      #     - chart3
      #     - chart4
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

- **awsConfig**
  - **AWS Access Key ID**: Enter your secure access key ID for your Glue connection. The specified key ID should be authorized to read all databases you want to include in the metadata ingestion workflow.
  - **AWS Secret Access Key**: Enter the Secret Access Key (the passcode key pair to the key ID from above).
  - **AWS Region**: Enter the location of the amazon cluster that your data and account are associated with.
  - **AWS Session Token (optional)**: The AWS session token is an optional parameter. If you want, enter the details of your temporary session token.
  - **Endpoint URL (optional)**: Your Glue connector will automatically determine the AWS Glue endpoint URL based on the region. You may override this behavior by entering a value to the endpoint URL.

- **identityType**: The authentication method that the user uses to sign in.
- **awsAccountId**: AWS Account ID
- **namespace**: The Amazon QuickSight namespace that contains the dashboard IDs in this request ( To be provided when identityType is `ANONYMOUS` )
#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/dashboardServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `dbServiceNames`: Database Service Name for the creation of lineage, if the source supports it.
- `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern`: Note that the `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern` both support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,

```yaml
dashboardFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>


### 2. Run with the CLI

First, we will need to save the YAML file. Afterward, and with all requirements installed, we can run:

```bash
metadata ingest -c <path-to-yaml>
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same. By updating the YAML configuration,
you will be able to extract metadata from different sources.

Commit message:

Fix 10642: Mark delete entities and tags toggle (#10695)
* Added mark delete logic

* Final test and optimization

* After merge fixes

* Added include tags for dash pipelines dbt

* added docs and fixed test

* Fixed py tests

* Added UI changes for following newly added fields:
- markDeletedDashboards
- markDeletedMlModels
- markDeletedPipelines
- markDeletedTopics
- includeTags

* Fixed failing unit tests

* updated json files of localization for other languages

* Improved localization changes

* added localization changes for other languages

* Updated mark deleted desc

* updated the ingestion fields descriptions in the ingestion form for UI

* automated localization changes for other languages

* updated descriptions for includeTags field for dbtPipeline and databaseServiceMetadataPipeline json

* fixed issue where includeTags field was being sent in the dbtConfigSource

* Added flow to input taxonomy while adding BigQuery service.

---------

Co-authored-by: Aniket Katkar <aniketkatkar97@gmail.com>

openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/dashboard/quicksight/cli.md, after:

---
title: Run Quicksight Connector using the CLI
slug: /connectors/dashboard/quicksight/cli
---

# Run Quicksight using the metadata CLI

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Quicksight connector.

Configure and schedule Quicksight metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

### Python Requirements

To run the Quicksight ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[quicksight]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/dashboard/quickSightConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Quicksight.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is Quicksightled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Quicksight:

```yaml
source:
  type: Quicksight
  serviceName: local_Quicksight
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: QuickSight
      awsConfig:
        awsAccessKeyId: key
        awsSecretAccessKey: secret
        awsRegion: ap-south-1
        awsSessionToken: token
      awsAccountId: account-id
      identityType: identityType
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: DashboardMetadata
      overrideOwner: True
      markDeletedDashboards: True
      includeTags: True
      # dbServiceNames:
      #   - service1
      #   - service2
      # dashboardFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - dashboard1
      #     - dashboard2
      #   excludes:
      #     - dashboard3
      #     - dashboard4
      # chartFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - chart1
      #     - chart2
      #   excludes:
      #     - chart3
      #     - chart4
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

- **awsConfig**
  - **AWS Access Key ID**: Enter your secure access key ID for your Glue connection. The specified key ID should be authorized to read all databases you want to include in the metadata ingestion workflow.
  - **AWS Secret Access Key**: Enter the Secret Access Key (the passcode key pair to the key ID from above).
  - **AWS Region**: Enter the location of the amazon cluster that your data and account are associated with.
  - **AWS Session Token (optional)**: The AWS session token is an optional parameter. If you want, enter the details of your temporary session token.
  - **Endpoint URL (optional)**: Your Glue connector will automatically determine the AWS Glue endpoint URL based on the region. You may override this behavior by entering a value to the endpoint URL.

- **identityType**: The authentication method that the user uses to sign in.
- **awsAccountId**: AWS Account ID
- **namespace**: The Amazon QuickSight namespace that contains the dashboard IDs in this request ( To be provided when identityType is `ANONYMOUS` )
#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/dashboardServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `dbServiceNames`: Database Service Name for the creation of lineage, if the source supports it.
- `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern`: Note that the `dashboardFilterPattern` and `chartFilterPattern` both support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,
- `includeTags`: Set the Include tags toggle to control whether or not to include tags as part of metadata ingestion.
- `markDeletedDashboards`: Set the Mark Deleted Dashboards toggle to flag dashboards as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.

```yaml
dashboardFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>


### 2. Run with the CLI

First, we will need to save the YAML file. Afterward, and with all requirements installed, we can run:

```bash
metadata ingest -c <path-to-yaml>
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same. By updating the YAML configuration,
you will be able to extract metadata from different sources.
