# 0.13.2 Release

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**2023, January 30th**

[OpenMetadata 0.13.2 Release - Improved SQL Lineage, Glossary Bulk Upload, Unified Tag Category API, Mutually Exclusive Tags, Chrome Extension, and lots more](https://blog.open-metadata.org/openmetadata-0-13-2-release-e32c0de93361)
{% /note %}

## Improved SQL Lineage

- We have collaborated with the [sqllineage](https://github.com/reata/sqllineage) and [sqlfluff](https://www.sqlfluff.com/) communities
  to improve the parsing capabilities of `sqllineage`. We'll continue to collaborate to ship further improvements in new releases.

## New Glossary UI

- Moved from a tree view in the left panel to an easy to navigate list of the terms sorted alphabetically.
- The term list shows the tags and descriptions in the cards.

## Glossary Import & Export

- You can now export your Glossary data as a CSV file.
- In the same way, you can now bulk upload terms to a Glossary by adding their details in a CSV file.
- The import utility will validate the file and show you a preview of the elements that are going to be imported to OpenMetadata.

## Unified Tag Category API

- Renamed Tag Categories to Classification, a more widely used term.
- Updated the API to conform with the rest of the specification. More info [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/issues/9259).

## Mutually Exclusive Tags

- When creating a Classification or a Glossary term, you can now make the tags to be mutually exclusive.
- If tags are set to be mutually exclusive, you won't be able to set multiple tags from the same category in the same asset.

## EntityName

- Special characters

## Ingestion Framework

- Performance Improvements: We are now getting descriptions in batch, making connectors such as Redshift or Snowflake way faster!
- The Oracle connector now ships with the Thick mode enabled.
- AWS QuickSight fixes
- DB2 constraints and profiler improvements
- Added support for Postgres Foreign Tables
- Added support for Datalake profiler row-based sampling
