# 1.3.1 Release 🎉

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**2024, February 29th**

You can find the GitHub release [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases/tag/1.3.1-release).
{% /note %}

## Knowledge Center (Collate)

- Supports drag and drop for the hierarchy of knowledge articles.
- Enhanced the layout and loading experience of the knowledge page.

## Lineage

- When adding a new node in Lineage, the Display Name is supported in search.
- Fixed the issues with displaying lineage from Metabase.

## Glossary

- Improved the automation of performance tests for Glossary.
- Performance improvements to display a large Glossary.

## Data Insights

- Data Insights report has been improved.
- The cost Analysis report has been optimized.

## Notifications

- The format for Slack notifications has been improved.

## Custom Properties

- Added enum type support for custom properties.

## Connectors

- Now BigQuery connector supports Primary, Foreign, and Unique Constraints. It fetches the column description for views.
- Captures the SQL query that powers a Tableau DataModel.
- Azure Key Vault is supported as a Secrets Manager.
- Fixed an issue with ingestion from Sagemaker, Oracle, LDAP, DB2, dbt, Kafka, Metabase, and Databricks.
- Fixed Looker projects and optional project filter patterns.
- Fixed issues with ingestion pipelines.
- Fixed an issue with the service display name after ingestion.

## Other Changes

- The functionality for mutually exclusive tags has been disabled.
- PodGC set up for Argo workflows to delete the pods from the Kubernetes environment on a successful run of the pods.
- Fixed the issue with the display of the personal access token.
- Fixed the mentions in comments for Announcements.
- Fixed the issue with setting a Group as a Domain Owner.
- Fixed the issue with the tooltip in the data quality graph.
- Fixed an issue about notifying the Reviewer of a Glossary Term.
- Fixed the issues with testing the email settings.
- Fixed an issue with adding tags.
