# 0.13.0 Release

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**2022, December 8th**

[OpenMetadata 0.13.0 Release — Data Insights & KPIs, Lineage Traceability, Data Lake Profiler, Search Improvements, and lots more](https://blog.open-metadata.org/openmetadata-0-13-0-release-ac8ac5bd87c1)
{% /note %}

{%  youtube videoId="oNbMnTW5AkE" start="0:00" end="7:51" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

## Data Insights and KPI

Data Insight allows admins to take an active approach in their metadata management. Data Insight provides a single-pane view of all the key metrics to best reflect the state of your data. Admins can define the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and set goals within OpenMetadata to work towards better documentation, ownership, and tiering. Alerts can be set against the KPIs to be received on a specified schedule.

## Lineage

The lineage UI has been transformed to enhance user experience. Users can get a holistic view of an entity from the Lineage tab. When an entity is selected, the UI displays end-to-end lineage traceability for the table and column levels.

## Profiler

With the OpenMetadata UI, users can now create and deploy profiling workflows for the Datalake connector, which supports AWS S3 and GCS

## SSO

Support for LDAP SSO has been added in this release

## Advance Search

Syntax Editor has been introduced for advanced search with And/Or conditions that help discover assets quickly

## New Connectors

- AWS SageMaker
- AWS QuickSight
- AWS Kinesis
- Domo

## Messaging Service Schemas Improvements

Major enhancements have been made to how data is extracted from Kafka and Redpanda Messaging services. Previously, OpenMetadata extracted all the Topics in the messaging queue and also connected to the Schema Registry to get the Schemas. These schemas were taken as one payload and published to OpenMetadata. We now parse Avro and Protobuf Schemas to extract the fields. Now, users can document each of these fields within a schema by adding descriptions and tags. Users can search based on the fields in the Schema of a Topic.

## General Improvements

- Soft deleted entities can be restored. Currently, only the ML Models are not supported.
- Soft deleted teams can be restored. When restoring a soft deleted parent team, the child teams will not be restored by default.
