# 0.9.0 Release

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**2022, March 10th**

[OpenMetadata 0.9.0 Release](https://blog.open-metadata.org/openmetadata-0-9-0-release-8e7b93ab1882)
{% /note %}

## Collaboration

- Conversations in the main feed.
- Users can ask each other questions, add suggestions and replies.
- Turn some threads into tasks and provide it in MyData as number of tasks.
- Glossary.
- Table details - Click through on usage to see who or what services are using it, what queries are pulling from it.

## Data Quality

- Ability to create and monitor the test cases.
- Data Quality Tests support with Json Schemas and APIs.
- UI Integration to enable user to write tests and run them on Airflow.

## Glossary

- Glossaries are a Controlled Vocabulary in an organization used to define the concepts and terminologies specific to a
  particular domain.
- API & Schemas to support Glossary.
- UI support to add Glossary and Glossary Terms.
- Support for using Glossary terms to annotate Entities and Search using Glossary Terms.

## Connectors

- Apache Iceberg
- Azure SQL
- Clickhouse
- Clickhouse Usage
- Databricks
- Databricks Usage
- Delta Lake
- DynamoDB
- IBM DB2
- Power BI
- MSSQL Usage
- SingleStore
- Apache Atlas ,Import Metadata from Apache Atlas into OpenMetadata
- Amundsen, Import Metadata from Amundsen into OpenMetadata

## Lineage

- DataSource SQL Parsing support to extract Lineage
- View Lineage support

## Pipeline

- Capture pipeline status as it happens

## Security

- Security policies through the UI.
- Configuration personas and authorization based on policies.
- AWS SSO support.
