# 1.3.2 Release

{% inlineCalloutContainer %}
{% inlineCallout
color="violet-70"
icon="celebration"
bold="Upgrade OpenMetadata"
href="/deployment/upgrade" %}
Learn how to upgrade your OpenMetadata instance to 1.3.3!
{% /inlineCallout %}
{% /inlineCalloutContainer %}

You can find the GitHub release [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases/tag/1.3.2-release).

## MetaPilot (Collate)

- New MetaPilot application shipped in preview mode. Try it out in the [Sandbox](https://sandbox.open-metadata.org/)!
- Get automatically generated descriptions with GenAI. Now it’s easier than ever to document your data assets.
- Chat with the MetaPilot and get SQL queries to help you extract relevant information from your data assets.
- Let the MetaPilot help you understand and improve the queries used on your tables.

## Authentication Flow

- Added generic support for OIDC Authentication. This is SSO provider-agnostic.
- You can now integrate Confidential Clients to manage the server authentication.
- Now, the session renewal happens automatically in the backend.

## Data Quality

- Pagination support was added for the Data Quality tab for data assets.
- Fixed an issue with execution summary timeout issue for the data quality test.

## Connectors

- New Bigtable connector.
- Now, users can configure the external sample data storage path.
- Added lineage support for Snowflake materialized view and masking policies.
- Fixed session invalidation on Databricks during long-running queries.
- Fixed Ingestion Pipeline list for services with the same name.
- Fixed an issue with ingesting lineage when data models are ingested from Tableau.
- Fixed metrics computations for empty tables.
- Improve PATCH generation for array fields.

## Other Changes

- Avoid creating duplicated queries.
- Speed up the server start time by moving the Secrets Manager Migration to the migration container.
- Fixed the issue with the date filter for the Incident Manager.
- Fixed the issue with the Team filter for Data Insights.
- Fixed an issue with Azure SSO related to the MSAL version.
- Fixed an issue with search indexing.
- Fixed the missing input field for conversation source for alerts and notifications.
- Filter dashboards by a project on the Explore page.

---

**Full Changelog**: [link](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/compare/1.3.1-release...1.3.2-release)
