# 1.7.1 Release 🎉

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**May 23rd, 2025**
{% /note %}

You can find the GitHub release [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases/tag/1.7.1-release).

## Improvements

- Login page UI.
- DQ failure lineage tracing.
- Add Domain selection while creating tags.
- Added support for the Korean language.
- Support edit display name for the dashboard Data model.
- Configurable account usage for incremental metadata extraction.
- Add Athena schema comment support.
- Support dynamic height for detail page widgets.
- Add support for the following databases, schemas and services.
- Allow editing of SQL function at column level lineage.
- Support chart export in cost analysis.
- Add domain-level permissions while creating/updating dataProduct.
- Add support to add and edit Data Product from the entity page.
- Add bulk edit action for glossary listing page.

## Fixes

- Severity of incident POST creation.
- Service insights PDF export.
- Can't run table diffs on Snowflake when using private key authentication.
- Self-signup login error is not showing.
- Service connection config is not getting updated with multiple project IDs after ingestion.
- Data assets order in the Explore left panel.
- Added display name and description in Testcase Alert emails.
- PostgreSQL schemas are getting filtered out.
- Make prompt=login as optional.
- Apps allowing submission of negative numbers for some config fields.
- Error connecting S3 container to pipeline or tables in lineage edit mode.
- Mentions on the task should trigger the @mention alert.
- Postgres Duplicate table constraint error when re-ingesting.
- Unsupported Pipeline entity for lineage error.
- Issue with refresh for loggedInUser returns 401.
- Render settings menu based on permissions.
- Data products are not visible when redirecting from the assets listing to the entity page.
- Make certification always visible.
- Dots are misaligned/unclear in the multi-metric view of Test Case Metrics.
- Snowflake Tags Not Reattached or Re-ingested After Initial Ingestion.
- Remove data products associated with the old domain when an entity's domain is updated.
- Multiple image insertion issue and ensure proper inline error messaging for the Rich Text Editor.
- Handle UDF definition fetch exceptions.
- Parquet endpoint null case error.
- The deleted user page shows a spinner instead of "User not found".
- The enum cleanup is not triggering when all enum keys are removed in the custom property.
- Inconsistent behaviour when reassigning an asset to a different domain via the bulkAsset API.
- Airbyte pipeline lineage extraction.
- Add an include field for the list incident API.
- Metadata ingestion errors from Azure Data Lake.
- Support Ingesting Multiple Owners for dbt Models from manifest.json.
- Error ingesting using Datalake ADLS connector.
- PostgreSQL Sample Data Err- FATAL: too many connections for role "role_name".
- Testcase "Column values to be unique- oracledb error (ORA-00937).
- Alert Triggering on Both Failure and Success of the Test Case, even if configured for failure only.
- PBI lineage when source parameters are used and the lineage needs to be created from source expression.
- Comments are not reflected after ingestion for DB columns in Vertica.
- Custom theme styling issues.
- Entity right panel collapsing issue.
- Feeds count not showing up in the PipelineDetails page.

**Full Changelog**: [link](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/compare/1.7.0-release...1.7.1-release)
