openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/deployment/security/azure/docker.md, before:

---
title: Azure SSO for Docker
slug: /deployment/security/azure/docker
---

# Azure SSO for Docker

To enable security for the Docker deployment, follow the next steps:

## 1. Create an .env file

Get the `Client Id` and `Tenant ID` from Azure Application configured in [Step 3](/deployment/security/azure#step-3-where-to-find-the-credentials).

Get the Azure Service Application `Client Id`, `Client Secret`, `Authority`, `Scopes` from the information collected in [Step 9](/deployment/security/azure#step-9-note-down-the-clientid-and-authority).

Create an `openmetadata_azure.env` file and add the following contents as an example. Use the information
generated when setting up the account.

```shell
# OpenMetadata Server Authentication Configuration
AUTHORIZER_CLASS_NAME=org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer
AUTHORIZER_REQUEST_FILTER=org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter
AUTHORIZER_ADMIN_PRINCIPALS=[admin]  # Your `name` from name@domain.com
AUTHORIZER_PRINCIPAL_DOMAIN=open-metadata.org # Update with your domain

AUTHENTICATION_PROVIDER=azure
AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS=[https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/discovery/keys]
AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORITY=https://login.microsoftonline.com/{Tenant ID} # Update with your Tenant ID
AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_ID={Client ID} # Update with your Client ID of Azure Application
AUTHENTICATION_CALLBACK_URL=http://localhost:8585/callback
```

## 2. Start Docker

```commandline
docker compose --env-file ~/openmetadata_azure.env up -d
```

{% partial file="/v1.2/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}

Commit message:

Minor: Fix docs to include jwt url from OM in all the principalURLs config

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.2.x/deployment/security/azure/docker.md, after:

---
title: Azure SSO for Docker
slug: /deployment/security/azure/docker
---

# Azure SSO for Docker

To enable security for the Docker deployment, follow the next steps:

## 1. Create an .env file

Get the `Client Id` and `Tenant ID` from Azure Application configured in [Step 3](/deployment/security/azure#step-3-where-to-find-the-credentials).

Get the Azure Service Application `Client Id`, `Client Secret`, `Authority`, `Scopes` from the information collected in [Step 9](/deployment/security/azure#step-9-note-down-the-clientid-and-authority).

Create an `openmetadata_azure.env` file and add the following contents as an example. Use the information
generated when setting up the account.

```shell
# OpenMetadata Server Authentication Configuration
AUTHORIZER_CLASS_NAME=org.openmetadata.service.security.DefaultAuthorizer
AUTHORIZER_REQUEST_FILTER=org.openmetadata.service.security.JwtFilter
AUTHORIZER_ADMIN_PRINCIPALS=[admin]  # Your `name` from name@domain.com
AUTHORIZER_PRINCIPAL_DOMAIN=open-metadata.org # Update with your domain

AUTHENTICATION_PROVIDER=azure
AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS=[https://login.microsoftonline.com/common/discovery/keys, http://{your openmetadata domain}/api/v1/config/jwks] # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORITY=https://login.microsoftonline.com/{Tenant ID} # Update with your Tenant ID
AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_ID={Client ID} # Update with your Client ID of Azure Application
AUTHENTICATION_CALLBACK_URL=http://localhost:8585/callback
```

## 2. Start Docker

```commandline
docker compose --env-file ~/openmetadata_azure.env up -d
```

{% partial file="/v1.2/deployment/configure-ingestion.md" /%}
