openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/authConfig.md, before:

---
title: Auth Config | OpenMetadata Authentication Config
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/authconfig
---

# AuthConfiguration

*This schema defines the Auth Config.*

## Properties

- **`google`**: Google SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/googleSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/googleSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`okta`**: Okta SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/oktaSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/oktaSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`auth0`**: Auth0 SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/auth0SSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/auth0SSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`azure`**: Azure SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/azureSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/azureSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`customOidc`**: Custom OIDC SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/customOidcSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/customOidcSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`openmetadata`**: OpenMetadata SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/openMetadataJWTClientConfig.json](#/security/client/openMetadataJWTClientConfig.json)*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/authConfig.md, after:

---
title: Auth Config | OpenMetadata Authentication Config
description: Connect Authconfig to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/authconfig
---

# AuthConfiguration

*This schema defines the Auth Config.*

## Properties

- **`google`**: Google SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/googleSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/googleSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`okta`**: Okta SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/oktaSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/oktaSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`auth0`**: Auth0 SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/auth0SSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/auth0SSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`azure`**: Azure SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/azureSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/azureSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`customOidc`**: Custom OIDC SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/customOidcSSOClientConfig.json](#/security/client/customOidcSSOClientConfig.json)*.
- **`openmetadata`**: OpenMetadata SSO Configuration. Refer to *[../security/client/openMetadataJWTClientConfig.json](#/security/client/openMetadataJWTClientConfig.json)*.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
