openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/messaging/kafka/index.md, before:

---
title: Kafka
slug: /connectors/messaging/kafka
---

# Kafka

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Kafka connector.

Configure and schedule Kafka metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

If you don't want to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion container to configure the workflows via the UI, then you can check
the following docs to connect using Airflow SDK or with the CLI.

<TileContainer>
  <Tile
    icon="air"
    title="Ingest with Airflow"
    text="Configure the ingestion using Airflow SDK"
    link="/connectors/messaging/kafka/airflow"
    size="half"
  />
  <Tile
    icon="account_tree"
    title="Ingest with the CLI"
    text="Run a one-time ingestion using the metadata CLI"
    link="/connectors/messaging/kafka/cli"
    size="half"
  />
</TileContainer>

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

## Metadata Ingestion

### 1. Visit the Services Page

The first step is ingesting the metadata from your sources. Under
Settings, you will find a Services link an external source system to
OpenMetadata. Once a service is created, it can be used to configure
metadata, usage, and profiler workflows.

To visit the Services page, select Services from the Settings menu.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/visit-services.png"
alt="Visit Services Page"
caption="Find Services under the Settings menu"
/>

### 2. Create a New Service

Click on the Add New Service button to start the Service creation.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/create-service.png"
alt="Create a new service"
caption="Add a new Service from the Services page"
/>

### 3. Select the Service Type

Select Kafka as the service type and click Next.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/select-service.png"
  alt="Select Service"
  caption="Select your service from the list"
/>
</div>

### 4. Name and Describe your Service

Provide a name and description for your service as illustrated below.

#### Service Name

OpenMetadata uniquely identifies services by their Service Name. Provide
a name that distinguishes your deployment from other services, including
the other {connector} services that you might be ingesting metadata
from.


<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/add-new-service.png"
  alt="Add New Service"
  caption="Provide a Name and description for your Service"
/>
</div>


### 5. Configure the Service Connection

In this step, we will configure the connection settings required for
this connector. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that
you've configured the connector to read from your kafka service as
desired.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/service-connection.png"
  alt="Configure service connection"
  caption="Configure the service connection by filling the form"
/>
</div>


Once the credentials have been added, click on `Test Connection` and Save
the changes.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/test-connection.png"
  alt="Test Connection"
  caption="Test the connection and save the Service"
/>
</div>

#### Connection Options

- **Bootstrap Servers**: Kafka bootstrap servers. Add them in comma separated values ex: host1:9092,host2:9092.
- **Schema Registry URL**: Confluent Kafka Schema Registry URL. URI format.
- **Consumer Config**: Confluent Kafka Consumer Config.
- **Schema Registry Config**:Confluent Kafka Schema Registry Config.

<Note>

To ingest the topic schema `Schema Registry URL` must be passed

</Note>

### 6. Configure Metadata Ingestion

In this step we will configure the metadata ingestion pipeline,
Please follow the instructions below

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/configure-metadata-ingestion-messaging.png"
alt="Configure Metadata Ingestion"
caption="Configure Metadata Ingestion Page"
/>

#### Metadata Ingestion Options

- **Name**: This field refers to the name of ingestion pipeline, you can customize the name or use the generated name.
- **Topic Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to pipeline filter patterns to control whether or not to include topics as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include topics by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all topics with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other topics will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude topics by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all topics with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other topics will be included.
- **Ingest Sample Data (toggle)**: To ingest sample data from the topics.
- **Enable Debug Log (toggle)**: Set the Enable Debug Log toggle to set the default log level to debug, these logs can be viewed later in Airflow.

### 7. Schedule the Ingestion and Deploy

Scheduling can be set up at an hourly, daily, or weekly cadence. The
timezone is in UTC. Select a Start Date to schedule for ingestion. It is
optional to add an End Date.

Review your configuration settings. If they match what you intended,
click Deploy to create the service and schedule metadata ingestion.

If something doesn't look right, click the Back button to return to the
appropriate step and change the settings as needed.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/schedule.png"
alt="Schedule the Workflow"
caption="Schedule the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy"
/>

After configuring the workflow, you can click on Deploy to create the
pipeline.

### 8. View the Ingestion Pipeline

Once the workflow has been successfully deployed, you can view the
Ingestion Pipeline running from the Service Page.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/view-ingestion-pipeline.png"
alt="View Ingestion Pipeline"
caption="View the Ingestion Pipeline from the Service Page"
/>

### 9. Workflow Deployment Error

If there were any errors during the workflow deployment process, the
Ingestion Pipeline Entity will still be created, but no workflow will be
present in the Ingestion container.

You can then edit the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy it again.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/workflow-deployment-error.png"
alt="Workflow Deployment Error"
caption="Edit and Deploy the Ingestion Pipeline"
/>

From the Connection tab, you can also Edit the Service if needed.

Commit message:

Fix 10642: Mark delete entities and tags toggle (#10695)
* Added mark delete logic

* Final test and optimization

* After merge fixes

* Added include tags for dash pipelines dbt

* added docs and fixed test

* Fixed py tests

* Added UI changes for following newly added fields:
- markDeletedDashboards
- markDeletedMlModels
- markDeletedPipelines
- markDeletedTopics
- includeTags

* Fixed failing unit tests

* updated json files of localization for other languages

* Improved localization changes

* added localization changes for other languages

* Updated mark deleted desc

* updated the ingestion fields descriptions in the ingestion form for UI

* automated localization changes for other languages

* updated descriptions for includeTags field for dbtPipeline and databaseServiceMetadataPipeline json

* fixed issue where includeTags field was being sent in the dbtConfigSource

* Added flow to input taxonomy while adding BigQuery service.

---------

Co-authored-by: Aniket Katkar <aniketkatkar97@gmail.com>

openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/messaging/kafka/index.md, after:

---
title: Kafka
slug: /connectors/messaging/kafka
---

# Kafka

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Kafka connector.

Configure and schedule Kafka metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)

If you don't want to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion container to configure the workflows via the UI, then you can check
the following docs to connect using Airflow SDK or with the CLI.

<TileContainer>
  <Tile
    icon="air"
    title="Ingest with Airflow"
    text="Configure the ingestion using Airflow SDK"
    link="/connectors/messaging/kafka/airflow"
    size="half"
  />
  <Tile
    icon="account_tree"
    title="Ingest with the CLI"
    text="Run a one-time ingestion using the metadata CLI"
    link="/connectors/messaging/kafka/cli"
    size="half"
  />
</TileContainer>

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

## Metadata Ingestion

### 1. Visit the Services Page

The first step is ingesting the metadata from your sources. Under
Settings, you will find a Services link an external source system to
OpenMetadata. Once a service is created, it can be used to configure
metadata, usage, and profiler workflows.

To visit the Services page, select Services from the Settings menu.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/visit-services.png"
alt="Visit Services Page"
caption="Find Services under the Settings menu"
/>

### 2. Create a New Service

Click on the Add New Service button to start the Service creation.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/create-service.png"
alt="Create a new service"
caption="Add a new Service from the Services page"
/>

### 3. Select the Service Type

Select Kafka as the service type and click Next.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/select-service.png"
  alt="Select Service"
  caption="Select your service from the list"
/>
</div>

### 4. Name and Describe your Service

Provide a name and description for your service as illustrated below.

#### Service Name

OpenMetadata uniquely identifies services by their Service Name. Provide
a name that distinguishes your deployment from other services, including
the other {connector} services that you might be ingesting metadata
from.


<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/add-new-service.png"
  alt="Add New Service"
  caption="Provide a Name and description for your Service"
/>
</div>


### 5. Configure the Service Connection

In this step, we will configure the connection settings required for
this connector. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that
you've configured the connector to read from your kafka service as
desired.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/service-connection.png"
  alt="Configure service connection"
  caption="Configure the service connection by filling the form"
/>
</div>


Once the credentials have been added, click on `Test Connection` and Save
the changes.

<div className="w-100 flex justify-center">
<Image
  src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/test-connection.png"
  alt="Test Connection"
  caption="Test the connection and save the Service"
/>
</div>

#### Connection Options

- **Bootstrap Servers**: Kafka bootstrap servers. Add them in comma separated values ex: host1:9092,host2:9092.
- **Schema Registry URL**: Confluent Kafka Schema Registry URL. URI format.
- **Consumer Config**: Confluent Kafka Consumer Config.
- **Schema Registry Config**:Confluent Kafka Schema Registry Config.

<Note>

To ingest the topic schema `Schema Registry URL` must be passed

</Note>

### 6. Configure Metadata Ingestion

In this step we will configure the metadata ingestion pipeline,
Please follow the instructions below

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/kafka/configure-metadata-ingestion-messaging.png"
alt="Configure Metadata Ingestion"
caption="Configure Metadata Ingestion Page"
/>

#### Metadata Ingestion Options

- **Name**: This field refers to the name of ingestion pipeline, you can customize the name or use the generated name.
- **Topic Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to pipeline filter patterns to control whether or not to include topics as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include topics by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all topics with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other topics will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude topics by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all topics with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other topics will be included.
- **Ingest Sample Data (toggle)**: To ingest sample data from the topics.
- **Enable Debug Log (toggle)**: Set the Enable Debug Log toggle to set the default log level to debug, these logs can be viewed later in Airflow.
- **Mark Deleted Topics (toggle)**: Set the Mark Deleted Topics toggle to flag topics as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.

### 7. Schedule the Ingestion and Deploy

Scheduling can be set up at an hourly, daily, or weekly cadence. The
timezone is in UTC. Select a Start Date to schedule for ingestion. It is
optional to add an End Date.

Review your configuration settings. If they match what you intended,
click Deploy to create the service and schedule metadata ingestion.

If something doesn't look right, click the Back button to return to the
appropriate step and change the settings as needed.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/schedule.png"
alt="Schedule the Workflow"
caption="Schedule the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy"
/>

After configuring the workflow, you can click on Deploy to create the
pipeline.

### 8. View the Ingestion Pipeline

Once the workflow has been successfully deployed, you can view the
Ingestion Pipeline running from the Service Page.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/view-ingestion-pipeline.png"
alt="View Ingestion Pipeline"
caption="View the Ingestion Pipeline from the Service Page"
/>

### 9. Workflow Deployment Error

If there were any errors during the workflow deployment process, the
Ingestion Pipeline Entity will still be created, but no workflow will be
present in the Ingestion container.

You can then edit the Ingestion Pipeline and Deploy it again.

<Image
src="/images/openmetadata/connectors/workflow-deployment-error.png"
alt="Workflow Deployment Error"
caption="Edit and Deploy the Ingestion Pipeline"
/>

From the Connection tab, you can also Edit the Service if needed.
