openmetadata-docs/content/v1.8.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/index.md, before:

---
title: Services API | OpenMetadata Service APIs
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services
---

# Services

This folder contains the following items:

- [**CreateDatabaseService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createdatabaseservice)
- [**CreatePipelineService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createpipelineservice)
- [**CreateMetadataService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createmetadataservice)
- [**CreateStorageService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createstorageservice)
- [**CreateMlModelService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createmlmodelservice)
- [**IngestionPipelines**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/ingestionpipelines)
- [**CreateDashboardService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createdashboardservice)
- [**CreateMessagingService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createmessagingservice)
- [**CreateApiService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createapiservice)
- [**CreateSearchService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createsearchservice)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.8.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/index.md, after:

---
title: Services API | OpenMetadata Service APIs
description: Connect Services to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services
---

# Services

This folder contains the following items:

- [**CreateDatabaseService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createdatabaseservice)
- [**CreatePipelineService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createpipelineservice)
- [**CreateMetadataService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createmetadataservice)
- [**CreateStorageService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createstorageservice)
- [**CreateMlModelService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createmlmodelservice)
- [**IngestionPipelines**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/ingestionpipelines)
- [**CreateDashboardService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createdashboardservice)
- [**CreateMessagingService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createmessagingservice)
- [**CreateApiService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createapiservice)
- [**CreateSearchService**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/api/services/createsearchservice)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
