openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/database/snowflake/cli.md, before:

---
title: Run Snowflake Connector using the CLI
slug: /connectors/database/snowflake/cli
---

# Run Snowflake using the metadata CLI
<Table>

| Stage | Metadata |Query Usage | Data Profiler | Data Quality | Lineage | DBT | Supported Versions |
|:------:|:------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|:------------:|:-------:|:---:|:------------------:|
|  PROD  |   ✅   |      ✅      |       ✅       |       ✅      |    ✅    |  ✅  |  --  |

</Table>

<Table>

| Lineage | Table-level | Column-level |
|:------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

</Table>

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Snowflake connector.

Configure and schedule Snowflake metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Query Usage](#query-usage)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Lineage](#lineage)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

### Python Requirements

To run the Snowflake ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[snowflake]"
```

If you want to run the Usage Connector, you'll also need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[snowflake-usage]"
```
To ingest basic metadata snowflake user must have the following priviledges:
  - `USAGE` Privilege on Warehouse
  - `USAGE` Privilege on Database
  - `USAGE` Privilege on Schema
  - `SELECT` Privilege on Tables
```sql
-- Create New Role
CREATE ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Create New User
CREATE USER NEW_USER DEFAULT_ROLE=NEW_ROLE PASSWORD='PASSWORD';

-- Grant role to user
GRANT ROLE NEW_ROLE TO USER NEW_USER;

-- Grant USAGE Privilege on Warehouse to New Role
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE WAREHOUSE_NAME TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Grant USAGE Privilege on Database to New Role
GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE TEST_DB TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Grant USAGE Privilege on required Schemas to New Role
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA TEST_SCHEMA TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Grant SELECT Privilege on required tables & views to New Role
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA TEST_SCHEMA TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL VIEWS IN SCHEMA TEST_SCHEMA TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;
```


While running the usage workflow, Openmetadata fetches the query logs by querying `snowflake.account_usage.query_history` table. For this the snowflake user should be granted the `ACCOUNTADMIN` role or a role granted IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on the database `SNOWFLAKE`.

```sql

-- Grant IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on all Schemas of SNOWFLAKE DB to New Role
GRANT IMPORTED PRIVILEGES ON ALL SCHEMAS IN DATABASE SNOWFLAKE TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

```


If ingesting tags, the user should also have permissions to query `snowflake.account_usage.tag_references`.For this the snowflake user should be granted the `ACCOUNTADMIN` role or a role granted IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on the database

```sql

-- Grant IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on all Schemas of SNOWFLAKE DB to New Role
GRANT IMPORTED PRIVILEGES ON ALL SCHEMAS IN DATABASE SNOWFLAKE TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

```

You can find more information about the `account_usage` schema [here](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/account-usage.html).

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/snowflakeConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Snowflake.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Snowflake:

```yaml
source:
  type: snowflake
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Snowflake
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      warehouse: <warehouse>
      account: <account>
      # database: <database>
      # hostPort: account.region.service.snowflakecomputing.com
      # privateKey: |
      #    <privateKey>
      #    <...>
      # snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase: <passphrase>
      # role: <role>
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: DatabaseMetadata
      markDeletedTables: true
      includeTables: true
      includeViews: true
      # includeTags: true
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: "<OpenMetadata host and port>"
    authProvider: "<OpenMetadata auth provider>"
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Snowflake. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to Snowflake.
- **account**: Enter the details for the Snowflake Account.
- **role**: Enter the details of the Snowflake Account Role. This is an optional detail.
- **warehouse**: Warehouse name.
- **database**: The database of the data source is an optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. If left blank, OpenMetadata ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.
- **privateKey**: Connection to Snowflake instance via Private Key instead of a Password.
  - The multi-line key needs to be correctly formatted in YAML so a literal block scalar which retains new lines is recommended (`|`).
- **snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase**: Snowflake Passphrase Key used with and encrypted Private Key.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to Snowflake during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to Snowflake during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
    - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
    - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `markDeletedTables`: To flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.
- `includeTables`: true or false, to ingest table data. Default is true.
- `includeViews`: true or false, to ingest views definitions.
- `databaseFilterPattern`, `schemaFilterPattern`, `tableFilternPattern`: Note that the they support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>

### 2. Run with the CLI

First, we will need to save the YAML file. Afterward, and with all requirements installed, we can run:

```bash
metadata ingest -c <path-to-yaml>
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same. By updating the YAML configuration,
you will be able to extract metadata from different sources.

## Query Usage

To ingest the Query Usage, the `serviceConnection` configuration will remain the same.
However, the `sourceConfig` is now modeled after this JSON Schema.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Snowflake Usage:

```yaml
source:
  type: snowflake-usage
  serviceName: "<service name>"
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Snowflake
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      warehouse: <warehouse>
      account: <account>
      # database: <database>
      # hostPort: account.region.service.snowflakecomputing.com
      # privateKey: <privateKey>
      # snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase: <passphrase>
      # role: <role>
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      # Number of days to look back
      queryLogDuration: 7
      # This is a directory that will be DELETED after the usage runs
      stageFileLocation: <path to store the stage file>
      # resultLimit: 1000
      # If instead of getting the query logs from the database we want to pass a file with the queries
      # queryLogFilePath: path-to-file
processor:
  type: query-parser
  config: {}
stage:
  type: table-usage
  config:
    filename: "/tmp/snowflake_usage"
bulkSink:
  type: metadata-usage
  config:
    filename: "/tmp/snowflake_usage"
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: "<OpenMetadata host and port>"
    authProvider: "<OpenMetadata auth provider>"
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

You can find all the definitions and types for the `serviceConnection` [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/bigQueryConnection.json).
They are the same as metadata ingestion.

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceQueryUsagePipeline.json).

- `queryLogDuration`: Configuration to tune how far we want to look back in query logs to process usage data.
- `resultLimit`: Configuration to set the limit for query logs

#### Processor, Stage and Bulk Sink

To specify where the staging files will be located.

Note that the location is a directory that will be cleaned at the end of the ingestion.

#### Workflow Configuration

The same as the metadata ingestion.

### 2. Run with the CLI

There is an extra requirement to run the Usage pipelines. You will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install --upgrade 'openmetadata-ingestion[snowflake-usage]'
```

After saving the YAML config, we will run the command the same way we did for the metadata ingestion:

```bash
metadata ingest -c <path-to-yaml>
```

## Data Profiler

The Data Profiler workflow will be using the `orm-profiler` processor.
While the `serviceConnection` will still be the same to reach the source system, the `sourceConfig` will be
updated from previous configurations.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for the profiler:

```yaml
source:
  type: snowflake
  serviceName: "<service name>"
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Snowflake
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      warehouse: <warehouse>
      account: <account>
      # database: <database>
      # hostPort: account.region.service.snowflakecomputing.com
      # privateKey: <privateKey>
      # snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase: <passphrase>
      # role: <role>
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: Profiler
      # generateSampleData: true
      # profileSample: 85
      # threadCount: 5 (default)
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config: {}  # Remove braces if adding properties
  # tableConfig:
  #   - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
  #     profileSample: <number between 0 and 99> # default will be 100 if omitted
  #     profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
  #     columnConfig:
  #       excludeColumns:
  #         - <column name>
  #       includeColumns:
  #         - columnName: <column name>
  #         - metrics:
  #           - MEAN
  #           - MEDIAN
  #           - ...
  #     partitionConfig:
  #       enablePartitioning: <set to true to use partitioning>
  #       partitionColumnName: <partition column name. Must be a timestamp or datetime/date field type>
  #       partitionInterval: <partition interval>
  #       partitionIntervalUnit: <YEAR, MONTH, DAY, HOUR>
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: "<OpenMetadata host and port>"
    authProvider: "<OpenMetadata auth provider>"
```

#### Source Configuration

- You can find all the definitions and types for the `serviceConnection` [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/snowflakeConnection.json).
- The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceProfilerPipeline.json).

Note that the filter patterns support regex as includes or excludes. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
  - *users$
```

#### Processor

Choose the `orm-profiler`. Its config can also be updated to define tests from the YAML itself instead of the UI:

```yaml
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config:
    tableConfig:
      - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
        profileSample: <number between 0 and 99>
        partitionConfig:
          partitionField: <field to use as a partition field>
          partitionQueryDuration: <for date/datetime partitioning based set the offset from today>
          partitionValues: <values to uses as a predicate for the query>
        profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
        columnConfig:
          excludeColumns:
            - <column name>
          includeColumns:
            - columnName: <column name>
            - metrics:
                - MEAN
                - MEDIAN
                - ...
```

`tableConfig` allows you to set up some configuration at the table level.
All the properties are optional. `metrics` should be one of the metrics listed [here](https://docs.open-metadata.org/openmetadata/ingestion/workflows/profiler/metrics)

#### Workflow Configuration

The same as the metadata ingestion.

### 2. Run with the CLI

After saving the YAML config, we will run the command the same way we did for the metadata ingestion:

```bash
metadata profile -c <path-to-yaml>
```

Note how instead of running `ingest`, we are using the `profile` command to select the Profiler workflow.

## Lineage

You can learn more about how to ingest lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/lineage).

## dbt Integration

You can learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt).

Commit message:

Add a configurationto skip  Snowflake transient and tmp tables (#10665)
* Add a configurationto skip  Snowflake transient and tmp tables

* Fix Python checkstyle

* add separate query for transient tables

* Move skipTempTables into SnowflakeConnection

* Fix merge conflict

* change skip word to include

* Add title in json file

---------

Co-authored-by: Pere Miquel Brull <peremiquelbrull@gmail.com>

openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/database/snowflake/cli.md, after:

---
title: Run Snowflake Connector using the CLI
slug: /connectors/database/snowflake/cli
---

# Run Snowflake using the metadata CLI
<Table>

| Stage | Metadata |Query Usage | Data Profiler | Data Quality | Lineage | DBT | Supported Versions |
|:------:|:------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|:------------:|:-------:|:---:|:------------------:|
|  PROD  |   ✅   |      ✅      |       ✅       |       ✅      |    ✅    |  ✅  |  --  |

</Table>

<Table>

| Lineage | Table-level | Column-level |
|:------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|
| ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |

</Table>

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Snowflake connector.

Configure and schedule Snowflake metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Query Usage](#query-usage)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [Lineage](#lineage)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

### Python Requirements

To run the Snowflake ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[snowflake]"
```

If you want to run the Usage Connector, you'll also need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[snowflake-usage]"
```
To ingest basic metadata snowflake user must have the following priviledges:
  - `USAGE` Privilege on Warehouse
  - `USAGE` Privilege on Database
  - `USAGE` Privilege on Schema
  - `SELECT` Privilege on Tables
```sql
-- Create New Role
CREATE ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Create New User
CREATE USER NEW_USER DEFAULT_ROLE=NEW_ROLE PASSWORD='PASSWORD';

-- Grant role to user
GRANT ROLE NEW_ROLE TO USER NEW_USER;

-- Grant USAGE Privilege on Warehouse to New Role
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE WAREHOUSE_NAME TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Grant USAGE Privilege on Database to New Role
GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE TEST_DB TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Grant USAGE Privilege on required Schemas to New Role
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA TEST_SCHEMA TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

-- Grant SELECT Privilege on required tables & views to New Role
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA TEST_SCHEMA TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL VIEWS IN SCHEMA TEST_SCHEMA TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;
```


While running the usage workflow, Openmetadata fetches the query logs by querying `snowflake.account_usage.query_history` table. For this the snowflake user should be granted the `ACCOUNTADMIN` role or a role granted IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on the database `SNOWFLAKE`.

```sql

-- Grant IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on all Schemas of SNOWFLAKE DB to New Role
GRANT IMPORTED PRIVILEGES ON ALL SCHEMAS IN DATABASE SNOWFLAKE TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

```


If ingesting tags, the user should also have permissions to query `snowflake.account_usage.tag_references`.For this the snowflake user should be granted the `ACCOUNTADMIN` role or a role granted IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on the database

```sql

-- Grant IMPORTED PRIVILEGES on all Schemas of SNOWFLAKE DB to New Role
GRANT IMPORTED PRIVILEGES ON ALL SCHEMAS IN DATABASE SNOWFLAKE TO ROLE NEW_ROLE;

```

You can find more information about the `account_usage` schema [here](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/account-usage.html).

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/snowflakeConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Snowflake.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Snowflake:

```yaml
source:
  type: snowflake
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Snowflake
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      warehouse: <warehouse>
      account: <account>
      # database: <database>
      includeTempTables: false
      # hostPort: account.region.service.snowflakecomputing.com
      # privateKey: |
      #    <privateKey>
      #    <...>
      # snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase: <passphrase>
      # role: <role>
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: DatabaseMetadata
      markDeletedTables: true
      includeTables: true
      includeViews: true
      # includeTags: true
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: "<OpenMetadata host and port>"
    authProvider: "<OpenMetadata auth provider>"
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Snowflake. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to Snowflake.
- **account**: Enter the details for the Snowflake Account.
- **role**: Enter the details of the Snowflake Account Role. This is an optional detail.
- **warehouse**: Warehouse name.
- **database**: The database of the data source is an optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single database. If left blank, OpenMetadata ingestion attempts to scan all the databases.
- **privateKey**: Connection to Snowflake instance via Private Key instead of a Password.
  - The multi-line key needs to be correctly formatted in YAML so a literal block scalar which retains new lines is recommended (`|`).
- **includeTempTables**: Optional configuration for ingestion of TRANSIENT and TEMPORARY tables, By default, it will skip the TRANSIENT and TEMPORARY tables.
- **snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase**: Snowflake Passphrase Key used with and encrypted Private Key.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to Snowflake during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to Snowflake during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
    - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
    - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `markDeletedTables`: To flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.
- `includeTables`: true or false, to ingest table data. Default is true.
- `includeViews`: true or false, to ingest views definitions.
- `databaseFilterPattern`, `schemaFilterPattern`, `tableFilternPattern`: Note that the they support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>

### 2. Run with the CLI

First, we will need to save the YAML file. Afterward, and with all requirements installed, we can run:

```bash
metadata ingest -c <path-to-yaml>
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same. By updating the YAML configuration,
you will be able to extract metadata from different sources.

## Query Usage

To ingest the Query Usage, the `serviceConnection` configuration will remain the same.
However, the `sourceConfig` is now modeled after this JSON Schema.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Snowflake Usage:

```yaml
source:
  type: snowflake-usage
  serviceName: "<service name>"
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Snowflake
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      warehouse: <warehouse>
      account: <account>
      # database: <database>
      # hostPort: account.region.service.snowflakecomputing.com
      # privateKey: <privateKey>
      # snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase: <passphrase>
      # role: <role>
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      # Number of days to look back
      queryLogDuration: 7
      # This is a directory that will be DELETED after the usage runs
      stageFileLocation: <path to store the stage file>
      # resultLimit: 1000
      # If instead of getting the query logs from the database we want to pass a file with the queries
      # queryLogFilePath: path-to-file
processor:
  type: query-parser
  config: {}
stage:
  type: table-usage
  config:
    filename: "/tmp/snowflake_usage"
bulkSink:
  type: metadata-usage
  config:
    filename: "/tmp/snowflake_usage"
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: "<OpenMetadata host and port>"
    authProvider: "<OpenMetadata auth provider>"
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection

You can find all the definitions and types for the `serviceConnection` [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/bigQueryConnection.json).
They are the same as metadata ingestion.

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceQueryUsagePipeline.json).

- `queryLogDuration`: Configuration to tune how far we want to look back in query logs to process usage data.
- `resultLimit`: Configuration to set the limit for query logs

#### Processor, Stage and Bulk Sink

To specify where the staging files will be located.

Note that the location is a directory that will be cleaned at the end of the ingestion.

#### Workflow Configuration

The same as the metadata ingestion.

### 2. Run with the CLI

There is an extra requirement to run the Usage pipelines. You will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install --upgrade 'openmetadata-ingestion[snowflake-usage]'
```

After saving the YAML config, we will run the command the same way we did for the metadata ingestion:

```bash
metadata ingest -c <path-to-yaml>
```

## Data Profiler

The Data Profiler workflow will be using the `orm-profiler` processor.
While the `serviceConnection` will still be the same to reach the source system, the `sourceConfig` will be
updated from previous configurations.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for the profiler:

```yaml
source:
  type: snowflake
  serviceName: "<service name>"
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Snowflake
      username: <username>
      password: <password>
      warehouse: <warehouse>
      account: <account>
      # database: <database>
      # hostPort: account.region.service.snowflakecomputing.com
      # privateKey: <privateKey>
      # snowflakePrivatekeyPassphrase: <passphrase>
      # role: <role>
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: Profiler
      # generateSampleData: true
      # profileSample: 85
      # threadCount: 5 (default)
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config: {}  # Remove braces if adding properties
  # tableConfig:
  #   - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
  #     profileSample: <number between 0 and 99> # default will be 100 if omitted
  #     profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
  #     columnConfig:
  #       excludeColumns:
  #         - <column name>
  #       includeColumns:
  #         - columnName: <column name>
  #         - metrics:
  #           - MEAN
  #           - MEDIAN
  #           - ...
  #     partitionConfig:
  #       enablePartitioning: <set to true to use partitioning>
  #       partitionColumnName: <partition column name. Must be a timestamp or datetime/date field type>
  #       partitionInterval: <partition interval>
  #       partitionIntervalUnit: <YEAR, MONTH, DAY, HOUR>
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: "<OpenMetadata host and port>"
    authProvider: "<OpenMetadata auth provider>"
```

#### Source Configuration

- You can find all the definitions and types for the `serviceConnection` [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/snowflakeConnection.json).
- The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceProfilerPipeline.json).

Note that the filter patterns support regex as includes or excludes. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
  - *users$
```

#### Processor

Choose the `orm-profiler`. Its config can also be updated to define tests from the YAML itself instead of the UI:

```yaml
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config:
    tableConfig:
      - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
        profileSample: <number between 0 and 99>
        partitionConfig:
          partitionField: <field to use as a partition field>
          partitionQueryDuration: <for date/datetime partitioning based set the offset from today>
          partitionValues: <values to uses as a predicate for the query>
        profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
        columnConfig:
          excludeColumns:
            - <column name>
          includeColumns:
            - columnName: <column name>
            - metrics:
                - MEAN
                - MEDIAN
                - ...
```

`tableConfig` allows you to set up some configuration at the table level.
All the properties are optional. `metrics` should be one of the metrics listed [here](https://docs.open-metadata.org/openmetadata/ingestion/workflows/profiler/metrics)

#### Workflow Configuration

The same as the metadata ingestion.

### 2. Run with the CLI

After saving the YAML config, we will run the command the same way we did for the metadata ingestion:

```bash
metadata profile -c <path-to-yaml>
```

Note how instead of running `ingest`, we are using the `profile` command to select the Profiler workflow.

## Lineage

You can learn more about how to ingest lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/lineage).

## dbt Integration

You can learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt).
