openmetadata-docs/content/v1.7.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/profilerConfiguration.md, before:

---
title: Profiler Configuration | OpenMetadata Profiler Setup
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/profilerconfiguration
---

# ProfilerConfiguration

*This schema defines the profiler configuration. It is used to configure globally the metrics to compute for specific data types.*

## Properties

- **`metricConfiguration`** *(array)*
  - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/metricConfigurationDefinition](#definitions/metricConfigurationDefinition)*.
## Definitions

- **`metricType`** *(string)*: This schema defines all possible metric types in OpenMetadata. Must be one of: `["mean", "valuesCount", "countInSet", "columnCount", "distinctCount", "distinctProportion", "iLikeCount", "likeCount", "notLikeCount", "regexCount", "notRegexCount", "max", "maxLength", "min", "minLength", "nullCount", "rowCount", "stddev", "sum", "uniqueCount", "uniqueProportion", "columnNames", "duplicateCount", "iLikeRatio", "likeRatio", "nullProportion", "interQuartileRange", "nonParametricSkew", "median", "firstQuartile", "thirdQuartile", "system", "histogram"]`.
- **`metricConfigurationDefinition`** *(object)*: This schema defines the parameters that can be passed for a Test Case. Cannot contain additional properties.
  - **`dataType`**: Refer to *[../entity/data/table.json#/definitions/dataType](#/entity/data/table.json#/definitions/dataType)*.
  - **`metrics`** *(array)*
    - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/metricType](#definitions/metricType)*.
  - **`disabled`** *(boolean)*: If true, the metric will not be computed for the data type. Default: `false`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.7.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/profilerConfiguration.md, after:

---
title: Profiler Configuration | OpenMetadata Profiler Setup
description: Connect Profilerconfiguration to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/configuration/profilerconfiguration
---

# ProfilerConfiguration

*This schema defines the profiler configuration. It is used to configure globally the metrics to compute for specific data types.*

## Properties

- **`metricConfiguration`** *(array)*
  - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/metricConfigurationDefinition](#definitions/metricConfigurationDefinition)*.
## Definitions

- **`metricType`** *(string)*: This schema defines all possible metric types in OpenMetadata. Must be one of: `["mean", "valuesCount", "countInSet", "columnCount", "distinctCount", "distinctProportion", "iLikeCount", "likeCount", "notLikeCount", "regexCount", "notRegexCount", "max", "maxLength", "min", "minLength", "nullCount", "rowCount", "stddev", "sum", "uniqueCount", "uniqueProportion", "columnNames", "duplicateCount", "iLikeRatio", "likeRatio", "nullProportion", "interQuartileRange", "nonParametricSkew", "median", "firstQuartile", "thirdQuartile", "system", "histogram"]`.
- **`metricConfigurationDefinition`** *(object)*: This schema defines the parameters that can be passed for a Test Case. Cannot contain additional properties.
  - **`dataType`**: Refer to *[../entity/data/table.json#/definitions/dataType](#/entity/data/table.json#/definitions/dataType)*.
  - **`metrics`** *(array)*
    - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/metricType](#definitions/metricType)*.
  - **`disabled`** *(boolean)*: If true, the metric will not be computed for the data type. Default: `false`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
