openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/dataInsight/dataInsightChart.md, before:

---
title: Data Insight Chart | OpenMetadata Data Insight
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/datainsightchart
---

# DataInsightChart

*DataInsightChart represents the definition of a chart with its parameters*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Unique identifier of this table instance. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: Name that identifies this data insight chart. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this data insight chart.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: FullyQualifiedName same as `name`. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`description`**: Description of the data insight chart. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown)*.
- **`dataIndexType`**: Refer to *[#/definitions/dataReportIndex](#definitions/dataReportIndex)*.
- **`dimensions`** *(array)*
  - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/chartParameterValues](#definitions/chartParameterValues)*.
- **`metrics`** *(array)*
  - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/chartParameterValues](#definitions/chartParameterValues)*.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`owners`**: Owners of this Pipeline. Refer to *[../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/type/entityReferenceList.json)*. Default: `null`.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted. Default: `false`.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../type/entityReference.json](#/type/entityReference.json)*.
## Definitions

- **`chartParameterValues`** *(object)*: This schema defines the parameter values for a chart.
  - **`name`** *(string)*: name of the parameter.
  - **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this parameter name.
  - **`chartDataType`** *(string)*: Data type of the parameter (int, date etc.). Must be one of: `["NUMBER", "INT", "FLOAT", "DOUBLE", "DECIMAL", "TIMESTAMP", "TIME", "DATE", "DATETIME", "ARRAY", "MAP", "SET", "STRING", "BOOLEAN", "PERCENTAGE"]`.
- **`dataReportIndex`** *(string)*: Index where data are stored. Must be one of: `["entity_report_data_index", "web_analytic_entity_view_report_data_index", "web_analytic_user_activity_report_data_index", "raw_cost_analysis_report_data_index", "aggregated_cost_analysis_report_data_index"]`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.9.x-SNAPSHOT/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/dataInsight/dataInsightChart.md, after:

---
title: Data Insight Chart | OpenMetadata Data Insight
description: Connect Datainsightchart to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/datainsightchart
---

# DataInsightChart

*DataInsightChart represents the definition of a chart with its parameters*

## Properties

- **`id`**: Unique identifier of this table instance. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid)*.
- **`name`**: Name that identifies this data insight chart. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/entityName)*.
- **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this data insight chart.
- **`fullyQualifiedName`**: FullyQualifiedName same as `name`. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/fullyQualifiedEntityName)*.
- **`description`**: Description of the data insight chart. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/markdown)*.
- **`dataIndexType`**: Refer to *[#/definitions/dataReportIndex](#definitions/dataReportIndex)*.
- **`dimensions`** *(array)*
  - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/chartParameterValues](#definitions/chartParameterValues)*.
- **`metrics`** *(array)*
  - **Items**: Refer to *[#/definitions/chartParameterValues](#definitions/chartParameterValues)*.
- **`version`**: Metadata version of the entity. Refer to *[../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](#/type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion)*.
- **`owners`**: Owners of this Pipeline. Refer to *[../type/entityReferenceList.json](#/type/entityReferenceList.json)*. Default: `null`.
- **`updatedAt`**: Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp)*.
- **`updatedBy`** *(string)*: User who made the update.
- **`href`**: Link to the resource corresponding to this entity. Refer to *[../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](#/type/basic.json#/definitions/href)*.
- **`changeDescription`**: Change that lead to this version of the entity. Refer to *[../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](#/type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription)*.
- **`deleted`** *(boolean)*: When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted. Default: `false`.
- **`domain`**: Domain the asset belongs to. When not set, the asset inherits the domain from the parent it belongs to. Refer to *[../type/entityReference.json](#/type/entityReference.json)*.
## Definitions

- **`chartParameterValues`** *(object)*: This schema defines the parameter values for a chart.
  - **`name`** *(string)*: name of the parameter.
  - **`displayName`** *(string)*: Display Name that identifies this parameter name.
  - **`chartDataType`** *(string)*: Data type of the parameter (int, date etc.). Must be one of: `["NUMBER", "INT", "FLOAT", "DOUBLE", "DECIMAL", "TIMESTAMP", "TIME", "DATE", "DATETIME", "ARRAY", "MAP", "SET", "STRING", "BOOLEAN", "PERCENTAGE"]`.
- **`dataReportIndex`** *(string)*: Index where data are stored. Must be one of: `["entity_report_data_index", "web_analytic_entity_view_report_data_index", "web_analytic_user_activity_report_data_index", "raw_cost_analysis_report_data_index", "aggregated_cost_analysis_report_data_index"]`.


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
