openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/database/trino/airflow.md, before:

---
title: Run Trino Connector using Airflow SDK
slug: /connectors/database/trino/airflow
---

# Run Trino using the Airflow SDK

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Trino connector.

Configure and schedule Trino metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

### Python Requirements

To run the Trino ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[trino]"
```

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/trinoConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Trino.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Trino:

```yaml
source:
  type: trino
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Trino
      hostPort: <hostPort>
      username: <username>
      catalog: <catalog>
              # databaseSchema: schema
              # proxies:
              #   http: http_proxy
              #   https: https_proxy
              # We can add URL parameters if needed
              # params:
      # key: value
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      markDeletedTables: true
      includeTables: true
      includeViews: true
      # includeTags: true
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
      # For dbt, choose one of Cloud, Local, HTTP, S3 or GCS configurations
      # dbtConfigSource:
      # # For cloud
      #   dbtCloudAuthToken: token
      #   dbtCloudAccountId: ID
      # # For Local
      #   dbtCatalogFilePath: path-to-catalog.json
      #   dbtManifestFilePath: path-to-manifest.json
      # # For HTTP
      #   dbtCatalogHttpPath: http://path-to-catalog.json
      #   dbtManifestHttpPath: http://path-to-manifest.json
      # # For S3
      #   dbtSecurityConfig:  # These are modeled after all AWS credentials
      #     awsAccessKeyId: KEY
      #     awsSecretAccessKey: SECRET
      #     awsRegion: us-east-2
      #   dbtPrefixConfig:
      #     dbtBucketName: bucket
      #     dbtObjectPrefix: "dbt/"
      # # For GCS
      #   dbtSecurityConfig:  # These are modeled after all GCS credentials
      #     type: My Type
      #     projectId: project ID
      #     privateKeyId: us-east-2
      #     privateKey: |
      #      -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
      #      Super secret key
      #      -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
      #     clientEmail: client@mail.com
      #     clientId: 1234
      #     authUri: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth (default)
      #     tokenUri: https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token (default)
      #     authProviderX509CertUrl: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs (default)
      #     clientX509CertUrl: https://cert.url (URI)
      #   dbtPrefixConfig:
      #     dbtBucketName: bucket
      #     dbtObjectPrefix: "dbt/"
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection


- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Trino. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to Trino.
- **hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your Trino deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **catalog**: Trino offers a catalog feature where all the databases are stored. (Providing the Catalog is not mandatory from 0.12.2 or greater versions)
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to Trino during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to Trino during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
  - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
  - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `markDeletedTables`: To flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.
- `includeTables`: true or false, to ingest table data. Default is true.
- `includeViews`: true or false, to ingest views definitions.
- `databaseFilterPattern`, `schemaFilterPattern`, `tableFilternPattern`: Note that the they support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>

### 2. Prepare the Ingestion DAG

Create a Python file in your Airflow DAGs directory with the following contents:

```python
import pathlib
import yaml
from datetime import timedelta
from airflow import DAG

try:
    from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
except ModuleNotFoundError:
    from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator

from metadata.config.common import load_config_file
from metadata.ingestion.api.workflow import Workflow
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

default_args = {
    "owner": "user_name",
    "email": ["username@org.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "retries": 3,
    "retry_delay": timedelta(minutes=5),
    "execution_timeout": timedelta(minutes=60)
}

config = """
<your YAML configuration>
"""

def metadata_ingestion_workflow():
    workflow_config = yaml.safe_load(config)
    workflow = Workflow.create(workflow_config)
    workflow.execute()
    workflow.raise_from_status()
    workflow.print_status()
    workflow.stop()

with DAG(
    "sample_data",
    default_args=default_args,
    description="An example DAG which runs a OpenMetadata ingestion workflow",
    start_date=days_ago(1),
    is_paused_upon_creation=False,
    schedule_interval='*/5 * * * *',
    catchup=False,
) as dag:
    ingest_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id="ingest_using_recipe",
        python_callable=metadata_ingestion_workflow,
    )
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same.
By updating the YAML configuration, you will be able to extract metadata from different sources.

## Data Profiler

The Data Profiler workflow will be using the `orm-profiler` processor.
While the `serviceConnection` will still be the same to reach the source system, the `sourceConfig` will be
updated from previous configurations.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for the profiler:

```yaml
source:
  type: trino
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Trino
      hostPort: <hostPort>
      username: <username>
      catalog: <catalog>
              # databaseSchema: schema
              # proxies:
              #   http: http_proxy
              #   https: https_proxy
              # We can add URL parameters if needed
              # params:
      # key: value
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: Profiler
      # generateSampleData: true
      # profileSample: 85
      # threadCount: 5 (default)
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config: {}  # Remove braces if adding properties
  # tableConfig:
  #   - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
  #     profileSample: <number between 0 and 99> # default will be 100 if omitted
  #     profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
  #     columnConfig:
  #       excludeColumns:
  #         - <column name>
  #       includeColumns:
  #         - columnName: <column name>
  #         - metrics:
  #           - MEAN
  #           - MEDIAN
  #           - ...
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration

- You can find all the definitions and types for the `serviceConnection` [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/trinoConnection.json).
- The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceProfilerPipeline.json).

Note that the filter patterns support regex as includes or excludes. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
  - *users$
```

#### Processor

Choose the `orm-profiler`. Its config can also be updated to define tests from the YAML itself instead of the UI:

```yaml
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config:
    tableConfig:
      - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
        profileSample: <number between 0 and 99>
        partitionConfig:
          partitionField: <field to use as a partition field>
          partitionQueryDuration: <for date/datetime partitioning based set the offset from today>
          partitionValues: <values to uses as a predicate for the query>
        profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
        columnConfig:
          excludeColumns:
            - <column name>
          includeColumns:
            - columnName: <column name>
            - metrics:
                - MEAN
                - MEDIAN
                - ...
```

`tableConfig` allows you to set up some configuration at the table level.
All the properties are optional. `metrics` should be one of the metrics listed [here](https://docs.open-metadata.org/openmetadata/ingestion/workflows/profiler/metrics)

#### Workflow Configuration

The same as the metadata ingestion.

### 2. Prepare the Profiler DAG

Here, we follow a similar approach as with the metadata and usage pipelines, although we will use a different Workflow class:

```python
import yaml
from datetime import timedelta

from airflow import DAG

try:
   from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
except ModuleNotFoundError:
   from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator

from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

from metadata.orm_profiler.api.workflow import ProfilerWorkflow


default_args = {
   "owner": "user_name",
   "email_on_failure": False,
   "retries": 3,
   "retry_delay": timedelta(seconds=10),
   "execution_timeout": timedelta(minutes=60),
}

config = """
<your YAML configuration>
"""

def metadata_ingestion_workflow():
   workflow_config = yaml.safe_load(config)
   workflow = ProfilerWorkflow.create(workflow_config)
   workflow.execute()
   workflow.raise_from_status()
   workflow.print_status()
   workflow.stop()

with DAG(
   "profiler_example",
   default_args=default_args,
   description="An example DAG which runs a OpenMetadata ingestion workflow",
   start_date=days_ago(1),
   is_paused_upon_creation=False,
   catchup=False,
) as dag:
   ingest_task = PythonOperator(
       task_id="profile_and_test_using_recipe",
       python_callable=metadata_ingestion_workflow,
   )
```

## dbt Integration

You can learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt).

Commit message:

Update: Trino, Presto Logic and Doc (#9859) (#9926)
* Update: Trino, Presto Logic and Doc

* Update: Trino, Presto Logic and Doc

* Update permissions in Doc

* Update openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/database/trino/index.md

Co-authored-by: Mayur Singal <39544459+ulixius9@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Mayur Singal <39544459+ulixius9@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Mayur Singal <39544459+ulixius9@users.noreply.github.com>

openmetadata-docs/content/connectors/database/trino/airflow.md, after:

---
title: Run Trino Connector using Airflow SDK
slug: /connectors/database/trino/airflow
---

# Run Trino using the Airflow SDK

In this section, we provide guides and references to use the Trino connector.

Configure and schedule Trino metadata and profiler workflows from the OpenMetadata UI:
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Metadata Ingestion](#metadata-ingestion)
- [Data Profiler](#data-profiler)
- [dbt Integration](#dbt-integration)

## Requirements

<InlineCallout color="violet-70" icon="description" bold="OpenMetadata 0.12 or later" href="/deployment">
To deploy OpenMetadata, check the <a href="/deployment">Deployment</a> guides.
</InlineCallout>

To run the Ingestion via the UI you'll need to use the OpenMetadata Ingestion Container, which comes shipped with
custom Airflow plugins to handle the workflow deployment.

### Python Requirements

To run the Trino ingestion, you will need to install:

```bash
pip3 install "openmetadata-ingestion[trino]"
```

<Note>

To Inesget metadata from the Trino User Must have select privileges to this tables.
- `information_schema.schemata`
- `information_schema.columns`
- `information_schema.tables`
- `information_schema.views`
- `system.metadata.table_comments`

</Note>

## Metadata Ingestion

All connectors are defined as JSON Schemas.
[Here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/trinoConnection.json)
you can find the structure to create a connection to Trino.

In order to create and run a Metadata Ingestion workflow, we will follow
the steps to create a YAML configuration able to connect to the source,
process the Entities if needed, and reach the OpenMetadata server.

The workflow is modeled around the following
[JSON Schema](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/workflow.json)

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for Trino:

```yaml
source:
  type: trino
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Trino
      hostPort: <hostPort>
      username: <username>
      catalog: <catalog>
              # databaseSchema: schema
              # proxies:
              #   http: http_proxy
              #   https: https_proxy
              # We can add URL parameters if needed
              # params:
      # key: value
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      markDeletedTables: true
      includeTables: true
      includeViews: true
      # includeTags: true
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
      # For dbt, choose one of Cloud, Local, HTTP, S3 or GCS configurations
      # dbtConfigSource:
      # # For cloud
      #   dbtCloudAuthToken: token
      #   dbtCloudAccountId: ID
      # # For Local
      #   dbtCatalogFilePath: path-to-catalog.json
      #   dbtManifestFilePath: path-to-manifest.json
      # # For HTTP
      #   dbtCatalogHttpPath: http://path-to-catalog.json
      #   dbtManifestHttpPath: http://path-to-manifest.json
      # # For S3
      #   dbtSecurityConfig:  # These are modeled after all AWS credentials
      #     awsAccessKeyId: KEY
      #     awsSecretAccessKey: SECRET
      #     awsRegion: us-east-2
      #   dbtPrefixConfig:
      #     dbtBucketName: bucket
      #     dbtObjectPrefix: "dbt/"
      # # For GCS
      #   dbtSecurityConfig:  # These are modeled after all GCS credentials
      #     type: My Type
      #     projectId: project ID
      #     privateKeyId: us-east-2
      #     privateKey: |
      #      -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
      #      Super secret key
      #      -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
      #     clientEmail: client@mail.com
      #     clientId: 1234
      #     authUri: https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth (default)
      #     tokenUri: https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token (default)
      #     authProviderX509CertUrl: https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs (default)
      #     clientX509CertUrl: https://cert.url (URI)
      #   dbtPrefixConfig:
      #     dbtBucketName: bucket
      #     dbtObjectPrefix: "dbt/"
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration - Service Connection


- **username**: Specify the User to connect to Trino. It should have enough privileges to read all the metadata.
- **password**: Password to connect to Trino.
- **hostPort**: Enter the fully qualified hostname and port number for your Trino deployment in the Host and Port field.
- **catalog**: Trino offers a catalog feature where all the databases are stored. (Providing the Catalog is not mandatory from 0.12.2 or greater versions)
- **DatabaseSchema**: DatabaseSchema of the data source. This is optional parameter, if you would like to restrict the metadata reading to a single databaseSchema. When left blank, OpenMetadata Ingestion attempts to scan all the databaseSchema.
- **Connection Options (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection options that can be sent to Trino during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
- **Connection Arguments (Optional)**: Enter the details for any additional connection arguments such as security or protocol configs that can be sent to Trino during the connection. These details must be added as Key-Value pairs.
  - In case you are using Single-Sign-On (SSO) for authentication, add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "sso_login_url"`
  - In case you authenticate with SSO using an external browser popup, then add the `authenticator` details in the Connection Arguments as a Key-Value pair as follows: `"authenticator" : "externalbrowser"`

#### Source Configuration - Source Config

The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceMetadataPipeline.json):

- `markDeletedTables`: To flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.
- `includeTables`: true or false, to ingest table data. Default is true.
- `includeViews`: true or false, to ingest views definitions.
- `databaseFilterPattern`, `schemaFilterPattern`, `tableFilternPattern`: Note that the they support regex as include or exclude. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
    - users
    - type_test
```

#### Sink Configuration

To send the metadata to OpenMetadata, it needs to be specified as `type: metadata-rest`.

#### Workflow Configuration

The main property here is the `openMetadataServerConfig`, where you can define the host and security provider of your OpenMetadata installation.

For a simple, local installation using our docker containers, this looks like:

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

We support different security providers. You can find their definitions [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/tree/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/security/client).
You can find the different implementation of the ingestion below.

<Collapse title="Configure SSO in the Ingestion Workflows">

### Openmetadata JWT Auth

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: openmetadata
    securityConfig:
      jwtToken: '{bot_jwt_token}'
```

### Auth0 SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Azure SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: azure
    securityConfig:
      clientSecret: '{your_client_secret}'
      authority: '{your_authority_url}'
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      scopes:
        - your_scopes
```

### Custom OIDC SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### Google SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: google
    securityConfig:
      secretKey: '{path-to-json-creds}'
```

### Okta SSO

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: http://localhost:8585/api
    authProvider: okta
    securityConfig:
      clientId: "{CLIENT_ID - SPA APP}"
      orgURL: "{ISSUER_URL}/v1/token"
      privateKey: "{public/private keypair}"
      email: "{email}"
      scopes:
        - token
```

### Amazon Cognito SSO

The ingestion can be configured by [Enabling JWT Tokens](https://docs.open-metadata.org/deployment/security/enable-jwt-tokens)

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: auth0
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### OneLogin SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

### KeyCloak SSO

Which uses Custom OIDC for the ingestion

```yaml
workflowConfig:
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: 'http://localhost:8585/api'
    authProvider: custom-oidc
    securityConfig:
      clientId: '{your_client_id}'
      secretKey: '{your_client_secret}'
      domain: '{your_domain}'
```

</Collapse>

### 2. Prepare the Ingestion DAG

Create a Python file in your Airflow DAGs directory with the following contents:

```python
import pathlib
import yaml
from datetime import timedelta
from airflow import DAG

try:
    from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
except ModuleNotFoundError:
    from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator

from metadata.config.common import load_config_file
from metadata.ingestion.api.workflow import Workflow
from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

default_args = {
    "owner": "user_name",
    "email": ["username@org.com"],
    "email_on_failure": False,
    "retries": 3,
    "retry_delay": timedelta(minutes=5),
    "execution_timeout": timedelta(minutes=60)
}

config = """
<your YAML configuration>
"""

def metadata_ingestion_workflow():
    workflow_config = yaml.safe_load(config)
    workflow = Workflow.create(workflow_config)
    workflow.execute()
    workflow.raise_from_status()
    workflow.print_status()
    workflow.stop()

with DAG(
    "sample_data",
    default_args=default_args,
    description="An example DAG which runs a OpenMetadata ingestion workflow",
    start_date=days_ago(1),
    is_paused_upon_creation=False,
    schedule_interval='*/5 * * * *',
    catchup=False,
) as dag:
    ingest_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id="ingest_using_recipe",
        python_callable=metadata_ingestion_workflow,
    )
```

Note that from connector to connector, this recipe will always be the same.
By updating the YAML configuration, you will be able to extract metadata from different sources.

## Data Profiler

The Data Profiler workflow will be using the `orm-profiler` processor.
While the `serviceConnection` will still be the same to reach the source system, the `sourceConfig` will be
updated from previous configurations.

### 1. Define the YAML Config

This is a sample config for the profiler:

```yaml
source:
  type: trino
  serviceName: <service name>
  serviceConnection:
    config:
      type: Trino
      hostPort: <hostPort>
      username: <username>
      catalog: <catalog>
              # databaseSchema: schema
              # proxies:
              #   http: http_proxy
              #   https: https_proxy
              # We can add URL parameters if needed
              # params:
      # key: value
  sourceConfig:
    config:
      type: Profiler
      # generateSampleData: true
      # profileSample: 85
      # threadCount: 5 (default)
      # databaseFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - database1
      #     - database2
      #   excludes:
      #     - database3
      #     - database4
      # schemaFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - schema1
      #     - schema2
      #   excludes:
      #     - schema3
      #     - schema4
      # tableFilterPattern:
      #   includes:
      #     - table1
      #     - table2
      #   excludes:
      #     - table3
      #     - table4
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config: {}  # Remove braces if adding properties
  # tableConfig:
  #   - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
  #     profileSample: <number between 0 and 99> # default will be 100 if omitted
  #     profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
  #     columnConfig:
  #       excludeColumns:
  #         - <column name>
  #       includeColumns:
  #         - columnName: <column name>
  #         - metrics:
  #           - MEAN
  #           - MEDIAN
  #           - ...
sink:
  type: metadata-rest
  config: {}
workflowConfig:
  # loggerLevel: DEBUG  # DEBUG, INFO, WARN or ERROR
  openMetadataServerConfig:
    hostPort: <OpenMetadata host and port>
    authProvider: <OpenMetadata auth provider>
```

#### Source Configuration

- You can find all the definitions and types for the `serviceConnection` [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/entity/services/connections/database/trinoConnection.json).
- The `sourceConfig` is defined [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/blob/main/openmetadata-spec/src/main/resources/json/schema/metadataIngestion/databaseServiceProfilerPipeline.json).

Note that the filter patterns support regex as includes or excludes. E.g.,

```yaml
tableFilterPattern:
  includes:
  - *users$
```

#### Processor

Choose the `orm-profiler`. Its config can also be updated to define tests from the YAML itself instead of the UI:

```yaml
processor:
  type: orm-profiler
  config:
    tableConfig:
      - fullyQualifiedName: <table fqn>
        profileSample: <number between 0 and 99>
        partitionConfig:
          partitionField: <field to use as a partition field>
          partitionQueryDuration: <for date/datetime partitioning based set the offset from today>
          partitionValues: <values to uses as a predicate for the query>
        profileQuery: <query to use for sampling data for the profiler>
        columnConfig:
          excludeColumns:
            - <column name>
          includeColumns:
            - columnName: <column name>
            - metrics:
                - MEAN
                - MEDIAN
                - ...
```

`tableConfig` allows you to set up some configuration at the table level.
All the properties are optional. `metrics` should be one of the metrics listed [here](https://docs.open-metadata.org/openmetadata/ingestion/workflows/profiler/metrics)

#### Workflow Configuration

The same as the metadata ingestion.

### 2. Prepare the Profiler DAG

Here, we follow a similar approach as with the metadata and usage pipelines, although we will use a different Workflow class:

```python
import yaml
from datetime import timedelta

from airflow import DAG

try:
   from airflow.operators.python import PythonOperator
except ModuleNotFoundError:
   from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator

from airflow.utils.dates import days_ago

from metadata.orm_profiler.api.workflow import ProfilerWorkflow


default_args = {
   "owner": "user_name",
   "email_on_failure": False,
   "retries": 3,
   "retry_delay": timedelta(seconds=10),
   "execution_timeout": timedelta(minutes=60),
}

config = """
<your YAML configuration>
"""

def metadata_ingestion_workflow():
   workflow_config = yaml.safe_load(config)
   workflow = ProfilerWorkflow.create(workflow_config)
   workflow.execute()
   workflow.raise_from_status()
   workflow.print_status()
   workflow.stop()

with DAG(
   "profiler_example",
   default_args=default_args,
   description="An example DAG which runs a OpenMetadata ingestion workflow",
   start_date=days_ago(1),
   is_paused_upon_creation=False,
   catchup=False,
) as dag:
   ingest_task = PythonOperator(
       task_id="profile_and_test_using_recipe",
       python_callable=metadata_ingestion_workflow,
   )
```

## dbt Integration

You can learn more about how to ingest dbt models' definitions and their lineage [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt).
