openmetadata-docs/content/v1.7.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/dataInsight/type/index.md, before:

---
title: Data Insight Types | OpenMetadata Insight Types
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type
---

# Type

This folder contains the following items:

- [**AggregatedUnusedAssetsCount**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedunusedassetscount)
- [**PageViewsByEntities**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/pageviewsbyentities)
- [**DailyActiveUsers**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/dailyactiveusers)
- [**UnusedAssets**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/unusedassets)
- [**MostViewedEntities**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/mostviewedentities)
- [**AggregatedUsedVsUnusedAssetsCount**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedusedvsunusedassetscount)
- [**AggregatedUsedVsUnusedAssetsSize**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedusedvsunusedassetssize)
- [**MostActiveUsers**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/mostactiveusers)
- [**AggregatedUnusedAssetsSize**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedunusedassetssize)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.

Commit message:

Docs: Meta Description Updation on Main Concept pages

openmetadata-docs/content/v1.7.x/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/dataInsight/type/index.md, after:

---
title: Data Insight Types | OpenMetadata Insight Types
description: Connect Type to enable streamlined access, monitoring, or search of enterprise data using secure and scalable integrations.
slug: /main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type
---

# Type

This folder contains the following items:

- [**AggregatedUnusedAssetsCount**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedunusedassetscount)
- [**PageViewsByEntities**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/pageviewsbyentities)
- [**DailyActiveUsers**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/dailyactiveusers)
- [**UnusedAssets**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/unusedassets)
- [**MostViewedEntities**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/mostviewedentities)
- [**AggregatedUsedVsUnusedAssetsCount**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedusedvsunusedassetscount)
- [**AggregatedUsedVsUnusedAssetsSize**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedusedvsunusedassetssize)
- [**MostActiveUsers**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/mostactiveusers)
- [**AggregatedUnusedAssetsSize**](/main-concepts/metadata-standard/schemas/datainsight/type/aggregatedunusedassetssize)


Documentation file automatically generated at 2025-01-15 09:05:41.923720+00:00.
