openmetadata-docs/content/partials/v1.3/connectors/database/configure-ingestion.md, before:

{% step srNumber=7 %}

{% stepDescription title="7. Configure Metadata Ingestion" %}

In this step we will configure the metadata ingestion pipeline,
Please follow the instructions below

{% /stepDescription %}

{% stepVisualInfo %}

{% image
  src="/images/v1.2/connectors/configure-metadata-ingestion-database.png"
  alt="Configure Metadata Ingestion"
  caption="Configure Metadata Ingestion Page" /%}

{% /stepVisualInfo %}

{% /step %}

{% extraContent parentTagName="stepsContainer" %}

#### Metadata Ingestion Options

- **Name**: This field refers to the name of ingestion pipeline, you can customize the name or use the generated name.
- **Database Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to database filter patterns to control whether or not to include database as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include databases by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all databases with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other databases will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude databases by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all databases with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other databases will be included.
- **Schema Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to schema filter patterns to control whether to include schemas as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include schemas by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all schemas with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other schemas will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude schemas by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all schemas with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other schemas will be included.
- **Table Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to table filter patterns to control whether to include tables as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include tables by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all tables with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other tables will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude tables by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all tables with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other tables will be included.
- **Include views (toggle)**: Set the Include views toggle to control whether to include views as part of metadata ingestion.
- **Include tags (toggle)**: Set the 'Include Tags' toggle to control whether to include tags as part of metadata ingestion.
- **Enable Debug Log (toggle)**: Set the Enable Debug Log toggle to set the default log level to debug.

- **Mark Deleted Tables (toggle)**: Set the Mark Deleted Tables toggle to flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.
- **Mark Deleted Tables from Filter Only (toggle)**: Set the Mark Deleted Tables from Filter Only toggle to flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore within the filtered schema or database only. This flag is useful when you have more than one ingestion pipelines. For example if you have a schema

Note that the right-hand side panel in the OpenMetadata UI will also share useful documentation when configuring the ingestion.

{% /extraContent %}

Commit message:

Added duck db ingestion connector

openmetadata-docs/content/partials/v1.3/connectors/database/configure-ingestion.md, after:

{% step srNumber=7 %}

{% stepDescription title="7. Configure Metadata Ingestion" %}

In this step we will configure the metadata ingestion pipeline,
Please follow the instructions below

{% /stepDescription %}

{% stepVisualInfo %}

{% image
  src="/images/v1.2/connectors/configure-metadata-ingestion-database.png"
  alt="Configure Metadata Ingestion"
  caption="Configure Metadata Ingestion Page" /%}

{% /stepVisualInfo %}

{% /step %}

{% extraContent parentTagName="stepsContainer" %}

#### Metadata Ingestion Options

{% note %}
If the owner's name is openmetadata, you need to enter `openmetadata@domain.com` in the name section of add team/user form, click [here](/connectors/ingestion/workflows/dbt/ingest-dbt-owner#following-steps-shows-adding-a-user-to-openmetadata) for more info.
{% /note %}

- **Name**: This field refers to the name of ingestion pipeline, you can customize the name or use the generated name.
- **Database Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to database filter patterns to control whether or not to include database as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include databases by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all databases with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other databases will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude databases by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all databases with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other databases will be included.
- **Schema Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to schema filter patterns to control whether to include schemas as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include schemas by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all schemas with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other schemas will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude schemas by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all schemas with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other schemas will be included.
- **Table Filter Pattern (Optional)**: Use to table filter patterns to control whether to include tables as part of metadata ingestion.
    - **Include**: Explicitly include tables by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Include field. OpenMetadata will include all tables with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other tables will be excluded.
    - **Exclude**: Explicitly exclude tables by adding a list of comma-separated regular expressions to the Exclude field. OpenMetadata will exclude all tables with names matching one or more of the supplied regular expressions. All other tables will be included.
- **Include views (toggle)**: Set the Include views toggle to control whether to include views as part of metadata ingestion.
- **Include tags (toggle)**: Set the 'Include Tags' toggle to control whether to include tags as part of metadata ingestion.
- **Enable Debug Log (toggle)**: Set the Enable Debug Log toggle to set the default log level to debug.
- **Include Owner(toggle)**: Set the 'Include Owners' toggle to control whether to include owners to the ingested entity if the owner email matches with a user stored in the OM server as part of metadata ingestion. If the ingested entity already exists and has an owner, the owner will not be overwritten.
- **Mark Deleted Tables (toggle)**: Set the Mark Deleted Tables toggle to flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore in the source system.
- **Mark Deleted Tables from Filter Only (toggle)**: Set the Mark Deleted Tables from Filter Only toggle to flag tables as soft-deleted if they are not present anymore within the filtered schema or database only. This flag is useful when you have more than one ingestion pipelines. For example if you have a schema

Note that the right-hand side panel in the OpenMetadata UI will also share useful documentation when configuring the ingestion.

{% /extraContent %}
