# 1.4.0 Release 🎉

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**May 21th, 2024**

[OpenMetadata 1.4.0 Release](https://blog.open-metadata.org/openmetadata-release-1-4-0-f6fb11ec34d7)
{% /note %}

You can find the GitHub release [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases/tag/1.4.0-release).

## Backward Incompatible Changes

### Tooling

- Metadata Backup/Recovery is deprecated. No further support will be provided.
- Users are advised to use database native tools to backup and store it in their object store for recovery.
- `bootstrap/bootstrap_storage.sh` has been deprecated in favor of bootstrap/openmetadata-ops.sh

### UI

- Activity has been improved. New update specific cards display critical information such as data quality test case updates, description, tag update or removal.
- For Lineage, the Expand All button has been removed. A new Layers button is introduced at the bottom left corner. With the Layers button, you can add Column Level Lineage or Data Observability details to your Lineage view.
- View Definition is now renamed as Schema Definition.
- Adding Glossary Term view is improved. Now we show glossary terms hierarchically enabling a better understanding of how the terms are setup while adding it to a table or dashboard.
- For Classification, users can set classification to be mutually exclusive only at the time of creation. Once created, you cannot change it back to mutually non-exclusive or vice-versa. This is to prevent conflicts of adding multiple tags that belong to same classification and later turning the mutually exclusive flag back to true.

### API

- Table Schema's `ViewDefinition` is now renamed to `SchemaDefinition` to capture Tables' Create Schema.
- Bulk Import API now creates entities if they are not present during the import.
- Table's TestSuite is migrated to EntityReference. Previously it used to store entire payload of TestSuite.

## Automator (Collate only)

{% youtube videoId="zdh4yzHw4w0" start="0:00" end="2:29" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- Easily maintain high-quality metadata at scale with automations. The Automator streamlines governance processes from ownership assignments to tagging, ensuring compliance and consistency.
- You can update the properties of your assets by filtering by service, owner, domain, or any other supported property from the advanced search.
- Easily see which assets have been selected by jumping to the Explore page in one click.
- For tables, data models, topics, and search indexes, you can apply the action to their columns or fields.
- We added support for the following actions: adding and removing owner, tier, domain, tags, glossary terms and descriptions, ML PII tagging, and propagation of tags and glossary terms through lineage.

## Bulk Upload Data Assets (Collate only)

{% youtube videoId="CXxDdS6AifY" start="0:00" end="2:19" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- Bulk upload/download database, schema, and table entities from/into a CSV file for quick edition or creation.
- Supports an inline editor to validate/update assets before performing the upload.
- APIs are available in OSS.

## Data Quality Improvements

{% youtube videoId="UNOHvBMVcYM" start="0:00" end="1:28" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- The Table schema page now shows the Data Quality tests for each column.
- Improved filtering options for test suite and test cases.
- We have improved how the UI fetches the Data Quality details for improved performance.
- We now compute Unique and Count in the same query to avoid inconsistency due to the high frequency of data insertion.
- Fixed the issue with removing the test case description upon the test case display name change.
- Support has been added for an empty string as a missing count.

## Data Profiler

- Implemented a global profiler configuration page, allowing admin to exclude certain metric computations for specific data types.
- Added profiler support for Redshift complex types and DynamoDB.
- Fixed an issue with performing sum operations for large values in profiler ingestion.
- Fixed the histogram unit's issues with scientific notation.

## Incident Manager

- We now display a sample of failed rows for the latest failed test cases. Once the issue is resolved, the failed sample will be deleted. (Collate Only)
- Fixed the Date time filter for the Incident Manager.
- Notifications are sent for the tasks created by the Incident Manager.

## Lineage Improvements

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KZdVb8DiHJs - Video on Column Lineage Search

- Column Lineage Search

{% youtube videoId="KZdVb8DiHJs" start="0:00" end="0:30" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- Lineage Layers

{% youtube videoId="wtBMeLvA6Sw" start="0:00" end="0:43" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- OpenMetadata already supports Column-level lineage, and now we have introduced Task-level lineage for Pipelines, Chart-level lineage for Dashboards, Feature-level lineage for ML Models, Field-level lineage for Topics, and columns for dashboard Data Models.
- Automated column-level lineage is now supported for Tableau, Superset, QlikCloud, and QlikSense between Data Models and Tables.
- The child nodes in a lineage graph are sorted in alphabetical order.
- Improved the log of failed-to-parse queries.
- Fixed an issue with automated column-level lineage overwriting the pipeline lineage and manual column lineage.
- Snowflake & Databricks now support automated lineage between external tables and their origin storage container.
- Lineage can be exported as a CSV file.
- OpenMetadata spark agent now supports automated lineage between tables and their origin storage container.
- Fixed an issue with parsing lineage queries for Redshift.
- Now, we support pipeline as an edge between any two entity types.
- We now parse PowerBi DAX files for lineage.
- Support has been added for dynamic tables.

## Data Insights

- Previously, the data insights reports displayed only the percentage coverage of ownership and description. Now, users can drill down to view the data assets with no owner or description.
- Improved the UX for data insight filters.

## Cost Analysis (Collate Only)

- Lifecycle data for Cost Analysis has been implemented for BigQuery, Snowflake, and Redshift.

## Custom Theme

{% youtube videoId="-NiU1flBHs0" start="0:00" end="1:02" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- Previously supported adding logo, monogram, and favicon to your OpenMetadata instance.
- Now, it supports customizing the theme with colors to suit your company branding.

## Landing Page Widgets (Collate Only)

{% youtube videoId="Kakfa-lYGOU" start="0:00" end="0:59" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- A widget was added to list the pipelines that belong to a user or their team.
- Added a Data Quality Widget to list the summary of data quality tests belonging to a user or their team.

## Ingestion Performance Improvements

- Bigquery, Redshift, and Snowflake now support incremental metadata ingestions by scanning DML operations on the query history.
- Database Services now support parallelizing the metadata ingestion at each schema.

## Connectors

- Now supports a new connector for QlikCloud.
- New Kafka Connect connector
- We now parse complex protobuf schemas for Kafka
- Improved model storage ingestion for Sagemaker and Mlflow.
- Added an option to include or exclude drafts from dashboards.
- Added an option to include or exclude paused pipelines in Airflow.
- Revamped SSL support to allow users to upload the required certificates directly in the UI.
- The character support has been enhanced for tag ingestion to include /.
- In the Oracle connector, we rolled back to use all* tables instead of dba*.
- Added support for Azure auth in Trino.
- For QlikSense, we have added an option to disable SSL validation.

## Custom Properties

{% youtube videoId="lZoSeKkErBk" start="0:00" end="1:07" width="800px" height="450px" /%}

- Custom Properties now allow linking other assets in the platform, such as Tables, Dashboards, etc. To enable this, create a Custom Property as an Entity Reference or Entity Reference List.

## Glossary

- The glossary term parent can now be changed from the Details page.
- On the data assets page, glossary terms are displayed by hierarchy.

## Alerts & Notification Improvements

- The Activity Feed provides more contextual information, removing the need to move to entity pages.
- Alerts give more accurate information about the entity, as well as conversations and tasks.

## Localization

- Fixed localization issues in the confirmation logic for the delete function.
- Fixed the search index language configuration.

## Roles

- Now, roles can be inherited from the user configuration in SSO.

## Search

- You can now filter by assets without a description or an owner.
- Improved the match results for search results.

## Others

- The description is auto-expanded when the data asset has no data and has the space to accommodate a lengthy description.
- User email IDs have been masked and are only visible to Admins.
- Users can filter Queries by owner, tag, and creation date in the UI.
- Added a button in the Query Editor to copy the Query.
- Improved Elasticsearch re-indexing.
- Improved the charts based on custom metrics.
- Improved the usage of the refresh token.
- Redundant scroll bars have been removed from the UI.
- Improved the bot role binding to provide more control over which roles are passed to the system bots.
