# 1.5.5 Release

{% note noteType="Tip" %}
**Sep 25th, 2024**
{% /note %}

You can find the GitHub release [here](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases/tag/1.5.5-release).

# What's Changed

- Made the type optional in ES Response.
- Added support for refresh tokens with multiple tabs open.
- Resolved issue of overriding user info after login.
- Updated the custom property entities data model, along with the data product and database schema icons.
- Ensured Teams and Owner fields are correctly passed in the policy API call.
- Enhanced PII logging information.
- Addressed the paginate_es issue in OpenSearch.
- Decrypted JWT internally for system health checks.
- Implemented multithreading in View Lineage Processing.
- Improved search relevancy.
- Resolved issue with owners patch.
- Fixed Snowflake data diff issue.
- Updated Presidio Analyzer version and validated support for legal entities.
- Added validations for Salesforce connection.
- Allowed PII Processor to operate without storing sample data.
- Added seconds to the human-readable format scale for test case graphs.
- Added missing field in glossary term.
- Excluded defaultPersona if not present in personas.
- Resolved team export issue.
- Updated Python lineage SDK to work with UUID and FQN models.
- Fixed LDAP login issue.
- Column sizing of data quality and pipeline widget (Collate)
- Export with new line in description (Collate)
- Fix Page entity publicationDate datatype (Collate)

**Full Changelog**: [link](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/compare/1.5.4-release...1.5.5-release)